1
Stray birds of summer come to my window to sing and fly away.
And yellow leaves of autumn, which have no songs, flutter and
fall there with a sigh.

2
O troupe of little vagrants of the world, leave your footprints
in my words.

3
The world puts off its mask of vastness to its lover.
It becomes small as one song, as one kiss of the eternal.

4
It is the tears of the earth that keep her smiles in bloom.

5
The mighty desert is burning for the love of a blade of grass who
shakes her head and laughs and flies away.

6
If you shed tears when you miss the sun, you also miss the stars.

7
The sands in your way beg for your song and your movement,
dancing water.  Will you carry the burden of their lameness?

8
Her wistful face haunts my dreams like the rain at night.

9
Once we dreamt that we were strangers.
We wake up to find that we were dear to each other.

10
Sorrow is hushed into peace in my heart like the evening among
the silent trees.

11
Some unseen fingers, like idle breeze, are playing upon my heart
the music of the ripples.

12
"What language is thine, O sea?"

"The language of eternal question."

"What language is thy answer, O sky?

"The language of eternal silence."

13
Listen, my heart, to the whispers of the world with which it
makes love to you.

14
The mystery of creation is like the darkness of night--it is
great.  Delusions of knowledge are like the fog of the morning.

15
Do not seat your love upon a precipice because it is high.

16
I sit at my window this morning where the world like a passer-by
stops for a moment, nods to me and goes.

17
These little thoughts are the rustle of leaves; they have their
whisper of joy in my mind.

18
What you are you do not see, what you see is your shadow.

19
My wishes are fools, they shout across thy songs, my Master.
Let me but listen.

20
I cannot choose the best.
The best chooses me.

21
They throw their shadows before them who carry their lantern on
their back.

22
That I exist is a perpetual surprise which is life.

23
"We, the rustling leaves, have a voice that answers the storms,
but who are you so silent?"

"I am a mere flower."

24
Rest belongs to the work as the eyelids to the eyes.

25
Man is a born child, his power is the power of growth.

26
God expects answers for the flowers he sends us, not for the sun
and the earth.

27
The light that plays, like a naked child, among the green leaves
happily knows not that man can lie.

28
O Beauty, find thyself in love, not in the flattery of thy
mirror.

29
My heart beats her waves at the shore of the world and writes
upon it her signature in tears with the words, "I love thee."

30
"Moon, for what do you wait?"

"To salute the sun for whom I must make way."

31
The trees come up to my window like the yearning voice of the
dumb earth.

32
His own mornings are new surprises to God.

33
Life finds its wealth by the claims of the world, and its worth
by the claims of love.

34
The dry river-bed finds no thanks for its past.

35
The bird wishes it were a cloud.  The cloud wishes it were a
bird.

36
The waterfall sings, "I find my song, when I find my freedom."

37
I cannot tell why this heart languishes in silence.
It is for small needs it never asks, or knows or remembers.

38
Woman, when you move about in your household service your limbs
sing like a hill stream among its pebbles.

39
The sun goes to cross the Western sea, leaving its last
salutation to the East.

40
Do not blame your food because you have no appetite.

41
The trees, like the longings of the earth, stand a-tiptoe to peep
at the heaven.

42
You smiled and talked to me of nothing and I felt that for this I
had been waiting long.

43
The fish in the water is silent, the animal on the earth is
noisy, the bird in the air is singing,
But Man has in him the silence of the sea, the noise of the earth
and the music of the air.

44
The world rushes on over the strings of the lingering heart
making the music of sadness.

45
He has made his weapons his gods.  When his weapons win he is
defeated himself.

46
God finds himself by creating.

47
Shadow, with her veil drawn, follows Light in secret meekness,
with her silent steps of love.

48
The stars are not afraid to appear like fireflies.

49
I thank thee that I am none of the wheels of power but I am one
with the living creatures that are crushed by it.

50
The mind, sharp but not broad, sticks at every point but does not
move.

51
Your idol is shattered in the dust to prove that God's dust is
greater than your idol.

52
Man does not reveal himself in his history, he struggles up
through it.

53
While the glass lamp rebukes the earthen for calling it cousin,
the moon rises, and the glass lamp, with a bland smile, calls
her, "My dear, dear sister."

54
Like the meeting of the seagulls and the waves we meet and come
near.  The seagulls fly off, the waves roll away and we depart.

55
My day is done, and I am like a boat drawn on the beach,
listening to the dance-music of the tide in the evening.

56
Life is given to us, we earn it by giving it.

57
We come nearest to the great when we are great in humility.

58
The sparrow is sorry for the peacock at the burden of its tail.

59
Never be afraid of the moments--thus sings the voice of the
everlasting.

60
The hurricane seeks the shortest road by the no-road, and
suddenly ends its search in the Nowhere.

61
Take my wine in my own cup, friend.
It loses its wreath of foam when poured into that of others.

62
The Perfect decks itself in beauty for the love of the Imperfect.

63
God says to man, "I heal you therefore I hurt, love you therefore
punish."

64
Thank the flame for its light, but do not forget the lampholder
standing in the shade with constancy of patience.

65
Tiny grass, your steps are small, but you possess the earth under
your tread.

66
The infant flower opens its bud and cries, "Dear World, please do
not fade."

67
God grows weary of great kingdoms, but never of little flowers.

68
Wrong cannot afford defeat but Right can.

69
"I give my whole water in joy," sings the waterfall, "though
little of it is enough for the thirsty."

70
Where is the fountain that throws up these flowers in a ceaseless
outbreak of ecstasy?

71
The woodcutter's axe begged for its handle from the tree.
The tree gave it.

72
In my solitude of heart I feel the sigh of this widowed evening
veiled with mist and rain.

73
Chastity is a wealth that comes from abundance of love.

74
The mist, like love, plays upon the heart of the hills and brings
out surprises of beauty.

75
We read the world wrong and say that it deceives us.

76
The poet wind is out over the sea and the forest to seek his own
voice.

77
Every child comes with the message that God is not yet
discouraged of man.

78
The grass seeks her crowd in the earth.
The tree seeks his solitude of the sky.

79
Man barricades against himself.

80
Your voice, my friend, wanders in my heart, like the muffled
sound of the sea among these listening pines.

81
What is this unseen flame of darkness whose sparks are the stars?

82
Let life be beautiful like summer flowers and death like autumn
leaves.

83
He who wants to do good knocks at the gate; he who loves finds
the gate open.

84
In death the many becomes one; in life the one becomes many.
Religion will be one when God is dead.

85
The artist is the lover of Nature, therefore he is her slave and
her master.

86
"How far are you from me, O Fruit?"

"I am hidden in your heart, O Flower."

87
This longing is for the one who is felt in the dark, but not seen
in the day.

88
"You are the big drop of dew under the lotus leaf, I am the
smaller one on its upper side," said the dewdrop to the lake.

89
The scabbard is content to be dull when it protects the keenness
of the sword.

90
In darkness the One appears as uniform; in the light the One
appears as manifold.

91
The great earth makes herself hospitable with the help of the
grass.

92
The birth and death of the leaves are the rapid whirls of the
eddy whose wider circles move slowly among stars.

93
Power said to the world, "You are mine.
The world kept it prisoner on her throne.
Love said to the world, "I am thine."
The world gave it the freedom of her house.

94
The mist is like the earth's desire.  It hides the sun for whom
she cries.

95
Be still, my heart, these great trees are prayers.

96
The noise of the moment scoffs at the music of the Eternal.

97
I think of other ages that floated upon the stream of life and
love and death and are forgotten, and I feel the freedom of
passing away.

98
The sadness of my soul is her bride's veil.
It waits to be lifted in the night.

99
Death's stamp gives value to the coin of life; making it possible
to buy with life what is truly precious.

100
The cloud stood humbly in a corner of the sky.
The morning crowned it with splendour.

101
The dust receives insult and in return offers her flowers.

102
Do not linger to gather flowers to keep them, but walk on, for
flowers will keep themselves blooming all your way.

103
Roots are the branches down in the earth.
Branches are roots in the air.

104
The music of the far-away summer flutters around the Autumn
seeking its former nest.

105
Do not insult your friend by lending him merits from your own
pocket.

106
The touch of the nameless days clings to my heart like mosses
round the old tree.

107
The echo mocks her origin to prove she is the original.

108
God is ashamed when the prosperous boasts of His special favour.

109
I cast my own shadow upon my path, because I have a lamp that has
not been lighted.

110
Man goes into the noisy crowd to drown his own clamour of
silence.

111
That which ends in exhaustion is death, but the perfect ending is
in the endless.

112
The sun has his simple robe of light.  The clouds are decked with
gorgeousness.

113
The hills are like shouts of children who raise their arms,
trying to catch stars.

114
The road is lonely in its crowd for it is not loved.

115
The power that boasts of its mischiefs is laughed at by the
yellow leaves that fall, and clouds that pass by.

116
The earth hums to me to-day in the sun, like a woman at her
spinng, some ballad of the ancient time in a forgotten tongue.

117
The grass-blade is worth of the great world where it grows.

118
Dream is a wife who must talk.
Sleep is a husband who silently suffers.

119
The night kisses the fading day whispering to his ear, "I am
death, your mother.  I am to give you fresh birth."

120
I feel, thy beauty, dark night, like that of the loved woman when
she has put out the lamp.

121
I carry in my world that flourishes the worlds that have failed.

122
Dear friend, I feel the silence of your great thoughts of may a
deepening eventide on this beach when I listen to these waves.

123
The bird thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift
in the air.

124
"In the moon thou sendest thy love letters to me," said the night
to the sun.

"I leave my answers in tears upon the grass."

125
The Great is a born child; when he dies he gives his great
childhood to the world.

126
Not hammerstrokes, but dance of the water sings the pebbles into
perfection.

127
Bees sip honey from flowers and hum their thanks when they leave.
The gaudy butterfly is sure that the flowers owe thanks to him.

128
To be outspoken is easy when you do not wait to speak the
complete truth.

129
Asks the Possible to the Impossible, "Where is your dwelling
place?"

"In the dreams of the impotent," comes the answer.

130
If you shut your door to all errors truth will be shut out.

131
I hear some rustle of things behind my sadness of heart,--I
cannot see them.

132
Leisure in its activity is work.
The stillness of the sea stirs in waves.

133
The leaf becomes flower when it loves.
The flower becomes fruit when it worships.

134
The roots below the earth claim no rewards for making the
branches fruitful.

135
This rainy evening the wind is restless.
I look at the swaying branches and ponder over the greatness of
all things.

136
Storm of midnight, like a giant child awakened in the untimely
dark, has begun to play and shout.

137
Thou raisest thy waves vainly to follow thy lover.  O sea, thou
lonely bride of the storm.

138
"I am ashamed of my emptiness," said the Word to the Work.
"I know how poor I am when I see you," said the Work to the Word.

139
Time is the wealth of change, but the clock in its parody makes
it mere change and no wealth.

140
Truth in her dress finds facts too tight.
In fiction she moves with ease.

141
When I travelled to here and to there, I was tired of thee, O
Road, but now when thou leadest me to everywhere I am wedded to
thee in love.

142
Let me think that there is one among those stars that guides my
life through the dark unknown.

143
Woman, with the grace of your fingers you touched my things and
order came out like music.

144
One sad voice has its nest among the ruins of the years.
It sings to me in the night,--"I loved you."

145
The flaming fire warns me off by its own glow.
Save me from the dying embers hidden under ashes.

146
I have my stars in the sky,
But oh for my little lamp unlit in my house.

147
The dust of the dead words clings to thee.
Wash thy soul with silence.

148
Gaps are left in life through which comes the sad music of death.

149
The world has opened its heart of light in the morning.
Come out, my heart, with thy love to meet it.

150
My thoughts shimmer with these shimmering leaves and my heart
sings with the touch of this sunlight; my life is glad to be
floating with all things into the blue of space, into the dark of
time.

151
God's great power is in the gentle breeze, not in the storm.

152
This is a dream in which things are all loose and they oppress.
I shall find them gathered in thee when I awake and shall be
free.

153
"Who is there to take up my duties?"  asked the setting sun.

"I shall do what I can, my Master," said the earthen lamp.

154
By plucking her petals you do not gather the beauty of the
flower.

155
Silence will carry your voice like the nest that holds the
sleeping birds.

156
The Great walks with the Small without fear.
The Middling keeps aloof.

157
The night opens the flowers in secret and allows the day to get
thanks.

158
Power takes as ingratitude the writhings of its victims.

159
When we rejoice in our fulness, then we can part with our fruits
with joy.

160
The raindrops kissed the earth and whispered,--"We are thy
homesick children, mother, come back to thee from the heaven."

161
The cobweb pretends to catch dew-drops and catches flies.

162
Love!  when you come with the burning lamp of pain in your hand,
I can see your face and know you as bliss.

163
"The learned say that your lights will one day be no more."  said
the firefly to the stars.

The stars made no answer.

164
In the dusk of the evening the bird of some early dawn comes to
the nest of my silence.

165
Thoughts pass in my mind like flocks of ducks in the sky.
I hear the voice of their wings.

166
The canal loves to think that rivers exist solely to supply it
with water.

167
The world has kissed my soul with its pain, asking for its return
in songs.

168
That which oppresses me, is it my soul trying to come out in the
open, or the soul of the world knocking at my heart for its
entrance?

169
Thought feeds itself with its own words and grows.

170
I have dipped the vessel of my heart into this silent hour; it
has filled with love.

171
Either you have work or you have not.
When you have to say, "Let us do something," then begins
mischief.

172
The sunflower blushed to own the nameless flower as her kin.
The sun rose and smiled on it, saying, "Are you well, my
darling?"

173
"Who drives me forward like fate?"

"The Myself striding on my back."

174
The clouds fill the watercups of the river, hiding themselves in
the distant hills.

175
I spill water from my water jar as I walk on my way,
Very little remains for my home.

176
The water in a vessel is sparkling; the water in the sea is dark.
The small truth has words that are clear; the great truth has
great silence.

177
Your smile was the flowers of your own fields, your talk was the
rustle of your own mountain pines, but your heart was the woman
that we all know.

178
It is the little things that I leave behind for my loved ones,--
great things are for everyone.

179
Woman, thou hast encircled the world's heart with the depth of
thy tears as the sea has the earth.

180
The sunshine greets me with a smile.  The rain, his sad sister,
talks to my heart.

181
My flower of the day dropped its petals forgotten.
In the evening it ripens into a golden fruit of memory.

182
I am like the road in the night listening to the footfalls of its
memories in silence.

183
The evening sky to me is like a window, and a lighted lamp, and a
waiting behind it.

184
He who is too busy doing good finds no time to be good.

185
I am the autumn cloud, empty of rain, see my fulness in the field
of ripened rice.

186
They hated and killed and men praised them.
But God in shame hastens to hide its memory under the green
grass.

187
Toes are the fingers that have forsaken their past.

188
Darkness travels towards light, but blindness towards death.

189
The pet dog suspects the universe for scheming to take its place.

190
Sit still my heart, do not raise your dust.
Let the world find its way to you.

191
The bow whispers to the arrow before it speeds forth--"Your
freedom is mine."

192
Woman, in your laughter you have the music of the fountain of
life.

193
A mind all logic is like a knife all blade.
It makes the hand bleed that uses it.

194
God loves man's lamp lights better than his own great stars.

195
This world is the world of wild storms kept tame with the music
of beauty.

196
"My heart is like the golden casket of thy kiss," said the sunset
cloud to the sun.

197
By touching you may kill, by keeping away you may possess.

198
The cricket's chirp and the patter of rain come to me through the
dark, like the rustle of dreams from my past youth.

199
"I have lost my dewdrop," cries the flower to the morning sky
that has lost all its stars.

200
The burning log bursts in flame and cries,--"This is my flower,
my death."

201
The wasp thinks that the honey-hive of the neighbouring bees is
too small.
His neighbours ask him to build one still smaller.

202
"I cannot keep your waves," says the bank to the river.

"Let me keep your footprints in my heart."

203
The day, with the noise of this little earth, drowns the silence
of all worlds.

204
The song feels the infinite in the air, the picture in the earth,
the poem in the air and the earth;
For its words have meaning that walks and music that soars.

205
When the sun goes down to the West, the East of his morning
stands before him in silence.

206
Let me not put myself wrongly to my world and set it against me.

207
Praise shames me, for I secretly beg for it.

208
Let my doing nothing when I have nothing to do become untroubled
in its depth of peace like the evening in the seashore when the
water is silent.

209
Maiden, your simplicity, like the blueness of the lake, reveals
your depth of truth.

210
The best does not come alone.  It comes with the company of the
all.

211
God's right hand is gentle, but terrible is his left hand.

212
My evening came among the alien trees and spoke in a language
which my morning stars did not know.

213
Night's darkness is a bag that bursts with the gold of the dawn.

214
Our desire lends the colours of the rainbow to the mere mists and
vapours of life.

215
God waits to win back his own flowers as gifts from man's hands.

216
My sad thoughts tease me asking me their own names.

217
The service of the fruit is precious, the service of the flower
is sweet, but let my service be the service of the leaves in its
shade of humble devotion.

218
My heart has spread its sails to the idle winds for the shadowy
island of Anywhere.

219
Men are cruel, but Man is kind.

220
Make me thy cup and let my fulness be for thee and for thine.

221
The storm is like the cry of some god in pain whose love the
earth refuses.

222
The world does not leak because death is not a crack.

223
Life has become richer by the love that has been lost.

224
My friend, your great heart shone with the sunrise of the East
like the snowy summit of a lonely hill in the dawn.

225
The fountain of death makes the still water of life play.

226
Those who have everything but thee, my God, laugh at those who
have nothing but thyself.

227
The movement of life has its rest in its own music.

228
Kicks only raise dust and not crops from the earth.

229
Our names are the light that glows on the sea waves at night and
then dies without leaving its signature.

230
Let him only see the thorns who has eyes to see the rose.

231
Set bird's wings with gold and it will never again soar in the
sky.

232
The same lotus of our clime blooms here in the alien water with
the same sweetness, under another name.

233
In heart's perspective the distance looms large.

234
The moon has her light all over the sky, her dark spots to
herself.

235
Do not say, "It is morning," and dismiss it with a name of
yesterday.  See it for the first time as a new-born child that
has no name.

236
Smoke boasts to the sky, and Ashes to the earth, that they are
brothers to the fire.

237
The raindrop whispered to the jasmine, "Keep me in your heart for
ever."

The jasmine sighed, "Alas," and dropped to the ground.

238
Timid thoughts, do not be afraid of me.
I am a poet.

239
The dim silence of my mind seems filled with crickets' chirp--the
grey twilight of sound.

240
Rockets, your insult to the stars follows yourself back to the
earth.

241
Thou hast led me through my crowded travels of the day to my
evening's loneliness.
I wait for its meaning through the stillness of the night.

242
This life is the crossing of a sea, where we meet in the same
narrow ship.
In death we reach the shore and go to our different worlds.

243
The stream of truth flows through its channels of mistakes.

244
My heart is homesick to-day for the one sweet hour across the sea
of time.

245
The bird-song is the echo of the morning light back from the
earth.

246
"Are you too proud to kiss me?"  the morning light asks the
buttercup.

247
"How may I sing to thee and worship, O Sun?"  asked the little
flower.

"By the simple silence of thy purity," answered the sun.

248
Man is worse than an animal when he is an animal.

249
Dark clouds become heaven's flowers when kissed by light.

250
Let not the sword-blade mock its handle for being blunt.

251
The night's silence, like a deep lamp, is burning with the light
of its milky way.

252
Around the sunny island of Life swells day and night death's
limitless song of the sea.

253
Is not this mountain like a flower, with its petals of hills,
drinking the sunlight?

254
The real with its meaning read wrong and emphasis misplaced is
the unreal.

255
Find your beauty, my heart, from the world's movement, like the
boat that has the grace of the wind and the water.

256
The eyes are not proud of their sight but of their eyeglasses.

257
I live in this little world of mine and am afraid to make it the
least less.  Lift me into thy world and let me have the freedom
gladly to lose my all.

258
The false can never grow into truth by growing in power.

259
My heart, with its lapping waves of song, longs to caress this
green world of the sunny day.

260
Wayside grass, love the star, then your dreams will come out in
flowers.

261
Let your music, like a sword, pierce the noise of the market to
its heart.

262
The trembling leaves of this tree touch my heart like the fingers
of an infant child.

263
This sadness of my soul is her bride's veil.
It waits to be lifted in the night.

264
The little flower lies in the dust.
It sought the path of the butterfly.

265
I am in the world of the roads.  The night comes.  Open thy gate,
thou world of the home.

266
I have sung the songs of thy day.  In the evening let me carry
thy lamp through the stormy path.

267
I do not ask thee into the house.
Come into my infinite loneliness, my Lover.

268
Death belongs to life as birth does.  The walk is in the raising
of the foot as in the laying of it down.

269
I have learnt the simple meaning of thy whispers in flowers and
sunshine--teach me to know thy words in pain and death.

270
The night's flower was late when the morning kissed her, she
shivered and sighed and dropped to the ground.

271
Through the sadness of all things I hear the crooning of the
Eternal Mother.

272
I came to your shore as a stranger, I lived in your house as a
guest, I leave your door as a friend, my earth.

273
Let my thoughts come to you, when I am gone, like the afterglow
of sunset at the margin of starry silence.

274
Light in my heart the evening star of rest and then let the night
whisper to me of love.

275
I am a child in the dark.
I stretch my hands through the coverlet of night for thee,
Mother.

276
The day of work is done.  Hide my face in your arms, Mother.
Let me dream.

277
The lamp of meeting burns long; it goes out in a moment at the
parting.

278
One word keep for me in thy silence, O World, when I am dead, "I
have loved."

279
We live in this world when we love it.

280
Let the dead have the immortality of fame, but the living the
immortality of love.

281
I have seen thee as the half-awakened child sees his mother in
the dusk of the dawn and then smiles and sleeps again.

282
I shall die again and again to know that life is inexhaustible.

283
While I was passing with the crowd in the road I saw thy smile
from the balcony and I sang and forgot all noise.

284
Love is life in its fulness like the cup with its wine.

285
They light their own lamps and sing their own words in their
temples.
But the birds sing thy name in thine own morning light,--for thy
name is joy.

286
Lead me in the centre of thy silence to fill my heart with songs.

287
Let them live who choose in their own hissing world of fireworks.
My heart longs for thy stars, my God.

288
Love's pain sang round my life like the unplumbed sea, and love's
joy sang like birds in its flowering groves.

289
Put out the lamp when thou wishest.
I shall know thy darkness and shall love it.

290
When I stand before thee at the day's end thou shalt see my scars
and know that I had my wounds and also my healing.

291
Some day I shall sing to thee in the sunrise of some other world,
"I have seen thee before in the light of the earth, in the love
of man."

292
Clouds come floating into my life from other days no longer to
shed rain or usher storm but to give colour to my sunset sky.

293
Truth raises against itself the storm that scatters its seeds
broadcast.

294
The storm of the last night has crowned this morning with golden
peace.

295
Truth seems to come with its final word; and the final word gives
birth to its next.

296
Blessed is he whose fame does not outshine his truth.

297
Sweetness of thy name fills my heart when I forget mine--like thy
morning sun when the mist is melted.

298
The silent night has the beauty of the mother and the clamorous
day of the child.

299
The world loved man when he smiled.  The world became afraid of
him when he laughed.

300
God waits for man to regain his childhood in wisdom.

301
Let me feel this world as thy love taking form, then my love will
help it.

302
Thy sunshine smiles upon the winter days of my heart, never
doubting of its spring flowers.

303
God kisses the finite in his love and man the infinite.

304
Thou crossest desert lands of barren years to reach the moment of
fulfilment.

305
God's silence ripens man's thoughts into speech.

306
Thou wilt find, Eternal Traveller, marks of thy footsteps across
my songs.

307
Let me not shame thee, Father, who displayest thy glory in thy
children.

308
Cheerless is the day, the light under frowning clouds is like a
punished child with traces of tears on its pale cheeks, and the
cry of the wind is like the cry of a wounded world.  But I know I
am travelling to meet my Friend.

309
To-night there is a stir among the palm leaves, a swell in the
sea, Full Moon, like the heart throb of the world.  From what
unknown sky hast thou carried in thy silence the aching secret of
love?

310
I dream of a star, an island of light, where I shall be born and
in the depth of its quickening leisure my life will ripen its
works like the ricefield in the autumn sun.

311
The smell of the wet earth in the rain rises like a great chant
of praise from the voiceless multitude of the insignificant.

312
That love can ever lose is a fact that we cannot accept as truth.

313
We shall know some day that death can never rob us of that which
our soul has gained, for her gains are one with herself.

314
God comes to me in the dusk of my evening with the flowers from
my past kept fresh in his basket.

315
When all the strings of my life will be tuned, my Master, then at
every touch of thine will come out the music of love.

316
Let me live truly, my Lord, so that death to me become true.

317
Man's history is waiting in patience for the triumph of the
insulted man.

318
I feel thy gaze upon my heart this moment like the sunny silence
of the morning upon the lonely field whose harvest is over.

319
I long for the Island of Songs across this heaving Sea of Shouts.

320
The prelude of the night is commenced in the music of the sunset,
in its solemn hymn to the ineffable dark.

321
I have scaled the peak and found no shelter in fame's bleak and
barren height.  Lead me, my Guide, before the light fades, into
the valley of quiet where life's harvest mellows into golden
wisdom.

322
Things look phantastic in this dimness of the dusk--the spires
whose bases are lost in the dark and tree tops like blots of ink.
I shall wait for the morning and wake up to see thy city in the
light.

323
I have suffered and despaired and known death and I am glad that
I am in this great world.

324
There are tracts in my life that are bare and silent.  They are
the open spaces where my busy days had their light and air.

325
Release me from my unfulfilled past clinging to me from behind
making death difficult.

326
Let this be my last word, that I trust in thy love.

LAMIA.


PART I.

Upon a time, before the faery broods
Drove Nymph and Satyr from the prosperous woods,
Before King Oberon's bright diadem,
Sceptre, and mantle, clasp'd with dewy gem,
Frighted away the Dryads and the Fauns
From rushes green, and brakes, and cowslip'd lawns,
The ever-smitten Hermes empty left
His golden throne, bent warm on amorous theft:
From high Olympus had he stolen light,
On this side of Jove's clouds, to escape the sight
Of his great summoner, and made retreat
Into a forest on the shores of Crete.
For somewhere in that sacred island dwelt
A nymph, to whom all hoofed Satyrs knelt;
At whose white feet the languid Tritons poured
Pearls, while on land they wither'd and adored.
Fast by the springs where she to bathe was wont,
And in those meads where sometime she might haunt,
Were strewn rich gifts, unknown to any Muse,
Though Fancy's casket were unlock'd to choose.
Ah, what a world of love was at her feet!
So Hermes thought, and a celestial heat
Burnt from his winged heels to either ear,
That from a whiteness, as the lily clear,
Blush'd into roses 'mid his golden hair,
Fallen in jealous curls about his shoulders bare.
From vale to vale, from wood to wood, he flew,
Breathing upon the flowers his passion new,
And wound with many a river to its head,
To find where this sweet nymph prepar'd her secret bed:
In vain; the sweet nymph might nowhere be found,
And so he rested, on the lonely ground,
Pensive, and full of painful jealousies
Of the Wood-Gods, and even the very trees.
There as he stood, he heard a mournful voice,
Such as once heard, in gentle heart, destroys
All pain but pity: thus the lone voice spake:
"When from this wreathed tomb shall I awake!
When move in a sweet body fit for life,
And love, and pleasure, and the ruddy strife
Of hearts and lips! Ah, miserable me!"
The God, dove-footed, glided silently
Round bush and tree, soft-brushing, in his speed,
The taller grasses and full-flowering weed,
Until he found a palpitating snake,
Bright, and cirque-couchant in a dusky brake.

She was a gordian shape of dazzling hue,
Vermilion-spotted, golden, green, and blue;
Striped like a zebra, freckled like a pard,
Eyed like a peacock, and all crimson barr'd;
And full of silver moons, that, as she breathed,
Dissolv'd, or brighter shone, or interwreathed
Their lustres with the gloomier tapestries--
So rainbow-sided, touch'd with miseries,
She seem'd, at once, some penanced lady elf,
Some demon's mistress, or the demon's self.
Upon her crest she wore a wannish fire
Sprinkled with stars, like Ariadne's tiar:
Her head was serpent, but ah, bitter-sweet!
She had a woman's mouth with all its pearls complete:
And for her eyes: what could such eyes do there
But weep, and weep, that they were born so fair?
As Proserpine still weeps for her Sicilian air.
Her throat was serpent, but the words she spake
Came, as through bubbling honey, for Love's sake,
And thus; while Hermes on his pinions lay,
Like a stoop'd falcon ere he takes his prey.

"Fair Hermes, crown'd with feathers, fluttering light,
I had a splendid dream of thee last night:
I saw thee sitting, on a throne of gold,
Among the Gods, upon Olympus old,
The only sad one; for thou didst not hear
The soft, lute-finger'd Muses chaunting clear,
Nor even Apollo when he sang alone,
Deaf to his throbbing throat's long, long melodious moan.
I dreamt I saw thee, robed in purple flakes,
Break amorous through the clouds, as morning breaks,
And, swiftly as a bright Phoebean dart,
Strike for the Cretan isle; and here thou art!
Too gentle Hermes, hast thou found the maid?"
Whereat the star of Lethe not delay'd
His rosy eloquence, and thus inquired:
"Thou smooth-lipp'd serpent, surely high inspired!
Thou beauteous wreath, with melancholy eyes,
Possess whatever bliss thou canst devise,
Telling me only where my nymph is fled,--
Where she doth breathe!" "Bright planet, thou hast said,"
Return'd the snake, "but seal with oaths, fair God!"
"I swear," said Hermes, "by my serpent rod,
And by thine eyes, and by thy starry crown!"
Light flew his earnest words, among the blossoms blown.
Then thus again the brilliance feminine:
"Too frail of heart! for this lost nymph of thine,
Free as the air, invisibly, she strays
About these thornless wilds; her pleasant days
She tastes unseen; unseen her nimble feet
Leave traces in the grass and flowers sweet;
From weary tendrils, and bow'd branches green,
She plucks the fruit unseen, she bathes unseen:
And by my power is her beauty veil'd
To keep it unaffronted, unassail'd
By the love-glances of unlovely eyes,
Of Satyrs, Fauns, and blear'd Silenus' sighs.
Pale grew her immortality, for woe
Of all these lovers, and she grieved so
I took compassion on her, bade her steep
Her hair in weird syrops, that would keep
Her loveliness invisible, yet free
To wander as she loves, in liberty.
Thou shalt behold her, Hermes, thou alone,
If thou wilt, as thou swearest, grant my boon!"
Then, once again, the charmed God began
An oath, and through the serpent's ears it ran
Warm, tremulous, devout, psalterian.
Ravish'd, she lifted her Circean head,
Blush'd a live damask, and swift-lisping said,
"I was a woman, let me have once more
A woman's shape, and charming as before.
I love a youth of Corinth--O the bliss!
Give me my woman's form, and place me where he is.
Stoop, Hermes, let me breathe upon thy brow,
And thou shalt see thy sweet nymph even now."
The God on half-shut feathers sank serene,
She breath'd upon his eyes, and swift was seen
Of both the guarded nymph near-smiling on the green.
It was no dream; or say a dream it was,
Real are the dreams of Gods, and smoothly pass
Their pleasures in a long immortal dream.
One warm, flush'd moment, hovering, it might seem
Dash'd by the wood-nymph's beauty, so he burn'd;
Then, lighting on the printless verdure, turn'd
To the swoon'd serpent, and with languid arm,
Delicate, put to proof the lythe Caducean charm.
So done, upon the nymph his eyes he bent
Full of adoring tears and blandishment,
And towards her stept: she, like a moon in wane,
Faded before him, cower'd, nor could restrain
Her fearful sobs, self-folding like a flower
That faints into itself at evening hour:
But the God fostering her chilled hand,
She felt the warmth, her eyelids open'd bland,
And, like new flowers at morning song of bees,
Bloom'd, and gave up her honey to the lees.
Into the green-recessed woods they flew;
Nor grew they pale, as mortal lovers do.

Left to herself, the serpent now began
To change; her elfin blood in madness ran,
Her mouth foam'd, and the grass, therewith besprent,
Wither'd at dew so sweet and virulent;
Her eyes in torture fix'd, and anguish drear,
Hot, glaz'd, and wide, with lid-lashes all sear,
Flash'd phosphor and sharp sparks, without one cooling tear.
The colours all inflam'd throughout her train,
She writh'd about, convuls'd with scarlet pain:
A deep volcanian yellow took the place
Of all her milder-mooned body's grace;
And, as the lava ravishes the mead,
Spoilt all her silver mail, and golden brede;
Made gloom of all her frecklings, streaks and bars,
Eclips'd her crescents, and lick'd up her stars:
So that, in moments few, she was undrest
Of all her sapphires, greens, and amethyst,
And rubious-argent: of all these bereft,
Nothing but pain and ugliness were left.
Still shone her crown; that vanish'd, also she
Melted and disappear'd as suddenly;
And in the air, her new voice luting soft,
Cried, "Lycius! gentle Lycius!"--Borne aloft
With the bright mists about the mountains hoar
These words dissolv'd: Crete's forests heard no more.

Whither fled Lamia, now a lady bright,
A full-born beauty new and exquisite?
She fled into that valley they pass o'er
Who go to Corinth from Cenchreas' shore;
And rested at the foot of those wild hills,
The rugged founts of the Peræan rills,
And of that other ridge whose barren back
Stretches, with all its mist and cloudy rack,
South-westward to Cleone. There she stood
About a young bird's flutter from a wood,
Fair, on a sloping green of mossy tread,
By a clear pool, wherein she passioned
To see herself escap'd from so sore ills,
While her robes flaunted with the daffodils.

Ah, happy Lycius!--for she was a maid
More beautiful than ever twisted braid,
Or sigh'd, or blush'd, or on spring-flowered lea
Spread a green kirtle to the minstrelsy:
A virgin purest lipp'd, yet in the lore
Of love deep learned to the red heart's core:
Not one hour old, yet of sciential brain
To unperplex bliss from its neighbour pain;
Define their pettish limits, and estrange
Their points of contact, and swift counterchange;
Intrigue with the specious chaos, and dispart
Its most ambiguous atoms with sure art;
As though in Cupid's college she had spent
Sweet days a lovely graduate, still unshent,
And kept his rosy terms in idle languishment.

Why this fair creature chose so fairily
By the wayside to linger, we shall see;
But first 'tis fit to tell how she could muse
And dream, when in the serpent prison-house,
Of all she list, strange or magnificent:
How, ever, where she will'd, her spirit went;
Whether to faint Elysium, or where
Down through tress-lifting waves the Nereids fair
Wind into Thetis' bower by many a pearly stair;
Or where God Bacchus drains his cups divine,
Stretch'd out, at ease, beneath a glutinous pine;
Or where in Pluto's gardens palatine
Mulciber's columns gleam in far piazzian line.
And sometimes into cities she would send
Her dream, with feast and rioting to blend;
And once, while among mortals dreaming thus,
She saw the young Corinthian Lycius
Charioting foremost in the envious race,
Like a young Jove with calm uneager face,
And fell into a swooning love of him.
Now on the moth-time of that evening dim
He would return that way, as well she knew,
To Corinth from the shore; for freshly blew
The eastern soft wind, and his galley now
Grated the quaystones with her brazen prow
In port Cenchreas, from Egina isle
Fresh anchor'd; whither he had been awhile
To sacrifice to Jove, whose temple there
Waits with high marble doors for blood and incense rare.
Jove heard his vows, and better'd his desire;
For by some freakful chance he made retire
From his companions, and set forth to walk,
Perhaps grown wearied of their Corinth talk:
Over the solitary hills he fared,
Thoughtless at first, but ere eve's star appeared
His phantasy was lost, where reason fades,
In the calm'd twilight of Platonic shades.
Lamia beheld him coming, near, more near--
Close to her passing, in indifference drear,
His silent sandals swept the mossy green;
So neighbour'd to him, and yet so unseen
She stood: he pass'd, shut up in mysteries,
His mind wrapp'd like his mantle, while her eyes
Follow'd his steps, and her neck regal white
Turn'd--syllabling thus, "Ah, Lycius bright,
And will you leave me on the hills alone?
Lycius, look back! and be some pity shown."
He did; not with cold wonder fearingly,
But Orpheus-like at an Eurydice;
For so delicious were the words she sung,
It seem'd he had lov'd them a whole summer long:
And soon his eyes had drunk her beauty up,
Leaving no drop in the bewildering cup,
And still the cup was full,--while he, afraid
Lest she should vanish ere his lip had paid
Due adoration, thus began to adore;
Her soft look growing coy, she saw his chain so sure:
"Leave thee alone! Look back! Ah, Goddess, see
Whether my eyes can ever turn from thee!
For pity do not this sad heart belie--
Even as thou vanishest so I shall die.
Stay! though a Naiad of the rivers, stay!
To thy far wishes will thy streams obey:
Stay! though the greenest woods be thy domain,
Alone they can drink up the morning rain:
Though a descended Pleiad, will not one
Of thine harmonious sisters keep in tune
Thy spheres, and as thy silver proxy shine?
So sweetly to these ravish'd ears of mine
Came thy sweet greeting, that if thou shouldst fade
Thy memory will waste me to a shade:--
For pity do not melt!"--"If I should stay,"
Said Lamia, "here, upon this floor of clay,
And pain my steps upon these flowers too rough,
What canst thou say or do of charm enough
To dull the nice remembrance of my home?
Thou canst not ask me with thee here to roam
Over these hills and vales, where no joy is,--
Empty of immortality and bliss!
Thou art a scholar, Lycius, and must know
That finer spirits cannot breathe below
In human climes, and live: Alas! poor youth,
What taste of purer air hast thou to soothe
My essence? What serener palaces,
Where I may all my many senses please,
And by mysterious sleights a hundred thirsts appease?
It cannot be--Adieu!" So said, she rose
Tiptoe with white arms spread. He, sick to lose
The amorous promise of her lone complain,
Swoon'd, murmuring of love, and pale with pain.
The cruel lady, without any show
Of sorrow for her tender favourite's woe,
But rather, if her eyes could brighter be,
With brighter eyes and slow amenity,
Put her new lips to his, and gave afresh
The life she had so tangled in her mesh:
And as he from one trance was wakening
Into another, she began to sing,
Happy in beauty, life, and love, and every thing,
A song of love, too sweet for earthly lyres,
While, like held breath, the stars drew in their panting


As those who, safe together met alone
For the first time through many anguish'd days,
Use other speech than looks; bidding him raise
His drooping head, and clear his soul of doubt,
For that she was a woman, and without
Any more subtle fluid in her veins
Than throbbing blood, and that the self-same pains
Inhabited her frail-strung heart as his.
And next she wonder'd how his eyes could miss
Her face so long in Corinth, where, she said,
She dwelt but half retir'd, and there had led
Days happy as the gold coin could invent
Without the aid of love; yet in content
Till she saw him, as once she pass'd him by,
Where 'gainst a column he leant thoughtfully
At Venus' temple porch, 'mid baskets heap'd
Of amorous herbs and flowers, newly reap'd
Late on that eve, as 'twas the night before
The Adonian feast; whereof she saw no more,
But wept alone those days, for why should she adore?
Lycius from death awoke into amaze,
To see her still, and singing so sweet lays;
Then from amaze into delight he fell
To hear her whisper woman's lore so well;
And every word she spake entic'd him on
To unperplex'd delight and pleasure known.
Let the mad poets say whate'er they please
Of the sweets of Fairies, Peris, Goddesses,
There is not such a treat among them all,
Haunters of cavern, lake, and waterfall,
As a real woman, lineal indeed
From Pyrrha's pebbles or old Adam's seed.
Thus gentle Lamia judg'd, and judg'd aright,
That Lycius could not love in half a fright,
So threw the goddess off, and won his heart
More pleasantly by playing woman's part,
With no more awe than what her beauty gave,
That, while it smote, still guaranteed to save.
Lycius to all made eloquent reply,
Marrying to every word a twinborn sigh;
And last, pointing to Corinth, ask'd her sweet,
If 'twas too far that night for her soft feet.
The way was short, for Lamia's eagerness
Made, by a spell, the triple league decrease
To a few paces; not at all surmised
By blinded Lycius, so in her comprized.
They pass'd the city gates, he knew not how,
So noiseless, and he never thought to know.

As men talk in a dream, so Corinth all,
Throughout her palaces imperial,
And all her populous streets and temples lewd,
Mutter'd, like tempest in the distance brew'd,
To the wide-spreaded night above her towers.
Men, women, rich and poor, in the cool hours,
Shuffled their sandals o'er the pavement white,
Companion'd or alone; while many a light
Flared, here and there, from wealthy festivals,
And threw their moving shadows on the walls,
Or found them cluster'd in the corniced shade
Of some arch'd temple door, or dusky colonnade.

Muffling his face, of greeting friends in fear,
Her fingers he press'd hard, as one came near
With curl'd gray beard, sharp eyes, and smooth bald crown,
Slow-stepp'd, and robed in philosophic gown:
Lycius shrank closer, as they met and past,
Into his mantle, adding wings to haste,
While hurried Lamia trembled: "Ah," said he,
"Why do you shudder, love, so ruefully?
Why does your tender palm dissolve in dew?"--
"I'm wearied," said fair Lamia: "tell me who
Is that old man? I cannot bring to mind
His features:--Lycius! wherefore did you blind
Yourself from his quick eyes?" Lycius replied,
"'Tis Apollonius sage, my trusty guide
And good instructor; but to-night he seems
The ghost of folly haunting my sweet dreams."

While yet he spake they had arrived before
A pillar'd porch, with lofty portal door,
Where hung a silver lamp, whose phosphor glow
Reflected in the slabbed steps below,
Mild as a star in water; for so new,
And so unsullied was the marble hue,
So through the crystal polish, liquid fine,
Ran the dark veins, that none but feet divine
Could e'er have touch'd there. Sounds Æolian
Breath'd from the hinges, as the ample span
Of the wide doors disclos'd a place unknown
Some time to any, but those two alone,
And a few Persian mutes, who that same year
Were seen about the markets: none knew where
They could inhabit; the most curious
Were foil'd, who watch'd to trace them to their house:
And but the flitter-winged verse must tell,
For truth's sake, what woe afterwards befel,
'Twould humour many a heart to leave them thus,
Shut from the busy world of more incredulous.


PART II.

Love in a hut, with water and a crust,
Is--Love, forgive us!--cinders, ashes, dust;
Love in a palace is perhaps at last
More grievous torment than a hermit's fast:--
That is a doubtful tale from faery land,
Hard for the non-elect to understand.
Had Lycius liv'd to hand his story down,
He might have given the moral a fresh frown,
Or clench'd it quite: but too short was their bliss
To breed distrust and hate, that make the soft voice hiss.
Besides, there, nightly, with terrific glare
Love, jealous grown of so complete a pair,
Hover'd and buzz'd his wings, with fearful roar,
Above the lintel of their chamber door,
And down the passage cast a glow upon the floor.

For all this came a ruin: side by side
They were enthroned, in the even tide,
Upon a couch, near to a curtaining
Whose airy texture, from a golden string,
Floated into the room, and let appear
Unveil'd the summer heaven, blue and clear,
Betwixt two marble shafts:--there they reposed,
Where use had made it sweet, with eyelids closed,
Saving a tythe which love still open kept,
That they might see each other while they almost slept;
When from the slope side of a suburb hill,
Deafening the swallow's twitter, came a thrill
Of trumpets--Lycius started--the sounds fled,
But left a thought, a buzzing in his head.
For the first time, since first he harbour'd in
That purple-lined palace of sweet sin,
His spirit pass'd beyond its golden bourn
Into the noisy world almost forsworn.
The lady, ever watchful, penetrant,
Saw this with pain, so arguing a want
Of something more, more than her empery
Of joys; and she began to moan and sigh
Because he mused beyond her, knowing well
That but a moment's thought is passion's passing bell.
"Why do you sigh, fair creature?" whisper'd he:
"Why do you think?" return'd she tenderly:
"You have deserted me;--where am I now?
Not in your heart while care weighs on your brow:
No, no, you have dismiss'd me; and I go
From your breast houseless: ay, it must be so."
He answer'd, bending to her open eyes,
Where he was mirror'd small in paradise,
"My silver planet, both of eve and morn!
Why will you plead yourself so sad forlorn,
While I am striving how to fill my heart
With deeper crimson, and a double smart?
How to entangle, trammel up and snare
Your soul in mine, and labyrinth you there
Like the hid scent in an unbudded rose?
Ay, a sweet kiss--you see your mighty woes.
My thoughts! shall I unveil them? Listen then!
What mortal hath a prize, that other men
May be confounded and abash'd withal,
But lets it sometimes pace abroad majestical,
And triumph, as in thee I should rejoice
Amid the hoarse alarm of Corinth's voice.
Let my foes choke, and my friends shout afar,
While through the thronged streets your bridal car
Wheels round its dazzling spokes."--The lady's cheek
Trembled; she nothing said, but, pale and meek,
Arose and knelt before him, wept a rain
Of sorrows at his words; at last with pain
Beseeching him, the while his hand she wrung,
To change his purpose. He thereat was stung,
Perverse, with stronger fancy to reclaim
Her wild and timid nature to his aim:
Besides, for all his love, in self despite,
Against his better self, he took delight
Luxurious in her sorrows, soft and new.
His passion, cruel grown, took on a hue
Fierce and sanguineous as 'twas possible
In one whose brow had no dark veins to swell.
Fine was the mitigated fury, like
Apollo's presence when in act to strike
The serpent--Ha, the serpent! certes, she
Was none. She burnt, she lov'd the tyranny,
And, all subdued, consented to the hour
When to the bridal he should lead his paramour.
Whispering in midnight silence, said the youth,
"Sure some sweet name thou hast, though, by my truth,
I have not ask'd it, ever thinking thee
Not mortal, but of heavenly progeny,
As still I do. Hast any mortal name,
Fit appellation for this dazzling frame?
Or friends or kinsfolk on the citied earth,
To share our marriage feast and nuptial mirth?"
"I have no friends," said Lamia, "no, not one;
My presence in wide Corinth hardly known:
My parents' bones are in their dusty urns
Sepulchred, where no kindled incense burns,
Seeing all their luckless race are dead, save me,
And I neglect the holy rite for thee.
Even as you list invite your many guests;
But if, as now it seems, your vision rests
With any pleasure on me, do not bid
Old Apollonius--from him keep me hid."
Lycius, perplex'd at words so blind and blank,
Made close inquiry; from whose touch she shrank,
Feigning a sleep; and he to the dull shade
Of deep sleep in a moment was betray'd.

It was the custom then to bring away
The bride from home at blushing shut of day,
Veil'd, in a chariot, heralded along
By strewn flowers, torches, and a marriage song,
With other pageants: but this fair unknown
Had not a friend. So being left alone,
(Lycius was gone to summon all his kin)
And knowing surely she could never win
His foolish heart from its mad pompousness,
She set herself, high-thoughted, how to dress
The misery in fit magnificence.
She did so, but 'tis doubtful how and whence
Came, and who were her subtle servitors.
About the halls, and to and from the doors,
There was a noise of wings, till in short space
The glowing banquet-room shone with wide-arched grace.
A haunting music, sole perhaps and lone
Supportress of the faery-roof, made moan
Throughout, as fearful the whole charm might fade.
Fresh carved cedar, mimicking a glade
Of palm and plantain, met from either side,
High in the midst, in honour of the bride:
Two palms and then two plantains, and so on,
From either side their stems branch'd one to one
All down the aisled place; and beneath all
There ran a stream of lamps straight on from wall to wall.
So canopied, lay an untasted feast
Teeming with odours. Lamia, regal drest,
Silently paced about, and as she went,
In pale contented sort of discontent,
Mission'd her viewless servants to enrich
The fretted splendour of each nook and niche.
Between the tree-stems, marbled plain at first,
Came jasper pannels; then, anon, there burst
Forth creeping imagery of slighter trees,
And with the larger wove in small intricacies.
Approving all, she faded at self-will,
And shut the chamber up, close, hush'd and still,
Complete and ready for the revels rude,
When dreadful guests would come to spoil her solitude.

The day appear'd, and all the gossip rout.
O senseless Lycius! Madman! wherefore flout
The silent-blessing fate, warm cloister'd hours,
And show to common eyes these secret bowers?
The herd approach'd; each guest, with busy brain,
Arriving at the portal, gaz'd amain,
And enter'd marveling: for they knew the street,
Remember'd it from childhood all complete
Without a gap, yet ne'er before had seen
That royal porch, that high-built fair demesne;
So in they hurried all, maz'd, curious and keen:
Save one, who look'd thereon with eye severe,
And with calm-planted steps walk'd in austere;
'Twas Apollonius: something too he laugh'd,
As though some knotty problem, that had daft
His patient thought, had now begun to thaw,
And solve and melt:--'twas just as he foresaw.

He met within the murmurous vestibule
His young disciple. "'Tis no common rule,
Lycius," said he, "for uninvited guest
To force himself upon you, and infest
With an unbidden presence the bright throng
Of younger friends; yet must I do this wrong,
And you forgive me." Lycius blush'd, and led
The old man through the inner doors broad-spread;
With reconciling words and courteous mien
Turning into sweet milk the sophist's spleen.

Of wealthy lustre was the banquet-room,
Fill'd with pervading brilliance and perfume:
Before each lucid pannel fuming stood
A censer fed with myrrh and spiced wood,
Each by a sacred tripod held aloft,
Whose slender feet wide-swerv'd upon the soft
Wool-woofed carpets: fifty wreaths of smoke
From fifty censers their light voyage took
To the high roof, still mimick'd as they rose
Along the mirror'd walls by twin-clouds odorous.
Twelve sphered tables, by silk seats insphered,
High as the level of a man's breast rear'd
On libbard's paws, upheld the heavy gold
Of cups and goblets, and the store thrice told
Of Ceres' horn, and, in huge vessels, wine
Come from the gloomy tun with merry shine.
Thus loaded with a feast the tables stood,
Each shrining in the midst the image of a God.

When in an antichamber every guest
Had felt the cold full sponge to pleasure press'd,
By minist'ring slaves, upon his hands and feet,
And fragrant oils with ceremony meet
Pour'd on his hair, they all mov'd to the feast
In white robes, and themselves in order placed
Around the silken couches, wondering
Whence all this mighty cost and blaze of wealth could spring.

Soft went the music the soft air along,
While fluent Greek a vowel'd undersong
Kept up among the guests, discoursing low
At first, for scarcely was the wine at flow;
But when the happy vintage touch'd their brains,
Louder they talk, and louder come the strains
Of powerful instruments:--the gorgeous dyes,
The space, the splendour of the draperies,
The roof of awful richness, nectarous cheer,
Beautiful slaves, and Lamia's self, appear,
Now, when the wine has done its rosy deed,
And every soul from human trammels freed,
No more so strange; for merry wine, sweet wine,
Will make Elysian shades not too fair, too divine.
Soon was God Bacchus at meridian height;
Flush'd were their cheeks, and bright eyes double bright:
Garlands of every green, and every scent
From vales deflower'd, or forest-trees branch-rent,
In baskets of bright osier'd gold were brought
High as the handles heap'd, to suit the thought
Of every guest; that each, as he did please,
Might fancy-fit his brows, silk-pillow'd at his ease.

What wreath for Lamia? What for Lycius?
What for the sage, old Apollonius?
Upon her aching forehead be there hung
The leaves of willow and of adder's tongue;
And for the youth, quick, let us strip for him
The thyrsus, that his watching eyes may swim
Into forgetfulness; and, for the sage,
Let spear-grass and the spiteful thistle wage
War on his temples. Do not all charms fly
At the mere touch of cold philosophy?
There was an awful rainbow once in heaven:
We know her woof, her texture; she is given
In the dull catalogue of common things.
Philosophy will clip an Angel's wings,
Conquer all mysteries by rule and line,
Empty the haunted air, and gnomed mine--
Unweave a rainbow, as it erewhile made
The tender-person'd Lamia melt into a shade.

By her glad Lycius sitting, in chief place,
Scarce saw in all the room another face,
Till, checking his love trance, a cup he took
Full brimm'd, and opposite sent forth a look
'Cross the broad table, to beseech a glance
From his old teacher's wrinkled countenance,
And pledge him. The bald-head philosopher
Had fix'd his eye, without a twinkle or stir
Full on the alarmed beauty of the bride,
Brow-beating her fair form, and troubling her sweet pride.
Lycius then press'd her hand, with devout touch,
As pale it lay upon the rosy couch:
'Twas icy, and the cold ran through his veins;
Then sudden it grew hot, and all the pains
Of an unnatural heat shot to his heart.
"Lamia, what means this? Wherefore dost thou start?
Know'st thou that man?" Poor Lamia answer'd not.
He gaz'd into her eyes, and not a jot
Own'd they the lovelorn piteous appeal:
More, more he gaz'd: his human senses reel:
Some hungry spell that loveliness absorbs;
There was no recognition in those orbs.
"Lamia!" he cried--and no soft-toned reply.
The many heard, and the loud revelry
Grew hush; the stately music no more breathes;
The myrtle sicken'd in a thousand wreaths.
By faint degrees, voice, lute, and pleasure ceased;
A deadly silence step by step increased,
Until it seem'd a horrid presence there,
And not a man but felt the terror in his hair.
"Lamia!" he shriek'd; and nothing but the shriek
With its sad echo did the silence break.
"Begone, foul dream!" he cried, gazing again
In the bride's face, where now no azure vein
Wander'd on fair-spaced temples; no soft bloom
Misted the cheek; no passion to illume
The deep-recessed vision:--all was blight;
Lamia, no longer fair, there sat a deadly white.
"Shut, shut those juggling eyes, thou ruthless man!
Turn them aside, wretch! or the righteous ban
Of all the Gods, whose dreadful images
Here represent their shadowy presences,
May pierce them on the sudden with the thorn
Of painful blindness; leaving thee forlorn,
In trembling dotage to the feeblest fright
Of conscience, for their long offended might,
For all thine impious proud-heart sophistries,
Unlawful magic, and enticing lies.
Corinthians! look upon that gray-beard wretch!
Mark how, possess'd, his lashless eyelids stretch
Around his demon eyes! Corinthians, see!
My sweet bride withers at their potency."
"Fool!" said the sophist, in an under-tone
Gruff with contempt; which a death-nighing moan
From Lycius answer'd, as heart-struck and lost,
He sank supine beside the aching ghost.
"Fool! Fool!" repeated he, while his eyes still
Relented not, nor mov'd; "from every ill
Of life have I preserv'd thee to this day,
And shall I see thee made a serpent's prey?"
Then Lamia breath'd death breath; the sophist's eye,
Like a sharp spear, went through her utterly,
Keen, cruel, perceant, stinging: she, as well
As her weak hand could any meaning tell,
Motion'd him to be silent; vainly so,
He look'd and look'd again a level--No!
"A Serpent!" echoed he; no sooner said,
Than with a frightful scream she vanished:
And Lycius' arms were empty of delight,
As were his limbs of life, from that same night.
On the high couch he lay!--his friends came round--
Supported him--no pulse, or breath they found,
And, in its marriage robe, the heavy body wound.[45:A]


FOOTNOTES:

[45:A] "Philostratus, in his fourth book _de Vita Apollonii_, hath a
memorable instance in this kind, which I may not omit, of one Menippus
Lycius, a young man twenty-five years of age, that going betwixt
Cenchreas and Corinth, met such a phantasm in the habit of a fair
gentlewoman, which taking him by the hand, carried him home to her
house, in the suburbs of Corinth, and told him she was a Phoenician by
birth, and if he would tarry with her, he should hear her sing and play,
and drink such wine as never any drank, and no man should molest him;
but she, being fair and lovely, would live and die with him, that was
fair and lovely to behold. The young man, a philosopher, otherwise staid
and discreet, able to moderate his passions, though not this of love,
tarried with her a while to his great content, and at last married her,
to whose wedding, amongst other guests, came Apollonius; who, by some
probable conjectures, found her out to be a serpent, a lamia; and that
all her furniture was, like Tantalus' gold, described by Homer, no
substance but mere illusions. When she saw herself descried, she wept,
and desired Apollonius to be silent, but he would not be moved, and
thereupon she, plate, house, and all that was in it, vanished in an
instant: many thousands took notice of this fact, for it was done in the
midst of Greece."






I.

Fair Isabel, poor simple Isabel!
Lorenzo, a young palmer in Love's eye!
They could not in the self-same mansion dwell
Without some stir of heart, some malady;
They could not sit at meals but feel how well
It soothed each to be the other by;
They could not, sure, beneath the same roof sleep
But to each other dream, and nightly weep.

II.

With every morn their love grew tenderer,
With every eve deeper and tenderer still;
He might not in house, field, or garden stir,
But her full shape would all his seeing fill;
And his continual voice was pleasanter
To her, than noise of trees or hidden rill;
Her lute-string gave an echo of his name,
She spoilt her half-done broidery with the same.

III.

He knew whose gentle hand was at the latch,
Before the door had given her to his eyes;
And from her chamber-window he would catch
Her beauty farther than the falcon spies;
And constant as her vespers would he watch,
Because her face was turn'd to the same skies;
And with sick longing all the night outwear,
To hear her morning-step upon the stair.

IV.

A whole long month of May in this sad plight
Made their cheeks paler by the break of June:
"To-morrow will I bow to my delight,
To-morrow will I ask my lady's boon."--
"O may I never see another night,
Lorenzo, if thy lips breathe not love's tune."--
So spake they to their pillows; but, alas,
Honeyless days and days did he let pass;

V.

Until sweet Isabella's untouch'd cheek
Fell sick within the rose's just domain,
Fell thin as a young mother's, who doth seek
By every lull to cool her infant's pain:
"How ill she is," said he, "I may not speak,
And yet I will, and tell my love all plain:
If looks speak love-laws, I will drink her tears,
And at the least 'twill startle off her cares."

VI.

So said he one fair morning, and all day
His heart beat awfully against his side;
And to his heart he inwardly did pray
For power to speak; but still the ruddy tide
Stifled his voice, and puls'd resolve away--
Fever'd his high conceit of such a bride,
Yet brought him to the meekness of a child:
Alas! when passion is both meek and wild!

VII.

So once more he had wak'd and anguished
A dreary night of love and misery,
If Isabel's quick eye had not been wed
To every symbol on his forehead high;
She saw it waxing very pale and dead,
And straight all flush'd; so, lisped tenderly,
"Lorenzo!"--here she ceas'd her timid quest,
But in her tone and look he read the rest.

VIII.

"O Isabella, I can half perceive
That I may speak my grief into thine ear;
If thou didst ever any thing believe,
Believe how I love thee, believe how near
My soul is to its doom: I would not grieve
Thy hand by unwelcome pressing, would not fear
Thine eyes by gazing; but I cannot live
Another night, and not my passion shrive.

IX.

"Love! thou art leading me from wintry cold,
Lady! thou leadest me to summer clime,
And I must taste the blossoms that unfold
In its ripe warmth this gracious morning time."
So said, his erewhile timid lips grew bold,
And poesied with hers in dewy rhyme:
Great bliss was with them, and great happiness
Grew, like a lusty flower in June's caress.

X.

Parting they seem'd to tread upon the air,
Twin roses by the zephyr blown apart
Only to meet again more close, and share
The inward fragrance of each other's heart.
She, to her chamber gone, a ditty fair
Sang, of delicious love and honey'd dart;
He with light steps went up a western hill,
And bade the sun farewell, and joy'd his fill.

XI.

All close they met again, before the dusk
Had taken from the stars its pleasant veil,
All close they met, all eyes, before the dusk
Had taken from the stars its pleasant veil,
Close in a bower of hyacinth and musk,
Unknown of any, free from whispering tale.
Ah! better had it been for ever so,
Than idle ears should pleasure in their woe.

XII.

Were they unhappy then?--It cannot be--
Too many tears for lovers have been shed,
Too many sighs give we to them in fee,
Too much of pity after they are dead,
Too many doleful stories do we see,
Whose matter in bright gold were best be read;
Except in such a page where Theseus' spouse
Over the pathless waves towards him bows.

XIII.

But, for the general award of love,
The little sweet doth kill much bitterness;
Though Dido silent is in under-grove,
And Isabella's was a great distress,
Though young Lorenzo in warm Indian clove
Was not embalm'd, this truth is not the less--
Even bees, the little almsmen of spring-bowers,
Know there is richest juice in poison-flowers.

XIV.

With her two brothers this fair lady dwelt,
Enriched from ancestral merchandize,
And for them many a weary hand did swelt
In torched mines and noisy factories,
And many once proud-quiver'd loins did melt
In blood from stinging whip;--with hollow eyes
Many all day in dazzling river stood,
To take the rich-ored driftings of the flood.

XV.

For them the Ceylon diver held his breath,
And went all naked to the hungry shark;
For them his ears gush'd blood; for them in death
The seal on the cold ice with piteous bark
Lay full of darts; for them alone did seethe
A thousand men in troubles wide and dark:
Half-ignorant, they turn'd an easy wheel,
That set sharp racks at work, to pinch and peel.

XVI.

Why were they proud? Because their marble founts
Gush'd with more pride than do a wretch's tears?--
Why were they proud? Because fair orange-mounts
Were of more soft ascent than lazar stairs?--
Why were they proud? Because red-lin'd accounts
Were richer than the songs of Grecian years?--
Why were they proud? again we ask aloud,
Why in the name of Glory were they proud?

XVII.

Yet were these Florentines as self-retired
In hungry pride and gainful cowardice,
As two close Hebrews in that land inspired,
Paled in and vineyarded from beggar-spies;
The hawks of ship-mast forests--the untired
And pannier'd mules for ducats and old lies--
Quick cat's-paws on the generous stray-away,--
Great wits in Spanish, Tuscan, and Malay.

XVIII.

How was it these same ledger-men could spy
Fair Isabella in her downy nest?
How could they find out in Lorenzo's eye
A straying from his toil? Hot Egypt's pest
Into their vision covetous and sly!
How could these money-bags see east and west?--
Yet so they did--and every dealer fair
Must see behind, as doth the hunted hare.

XIX.

O eloquent and famed Boccaccio!
Of thee we now should ask forgiving boon;
And of thy spicy myrtles as they blow,
And of thy roses amorous of the moon,
And of thy lilies, that do paler grow
Now they can no more hear thy ghittern's tune,
For venturing syllables that ill beseem
The quiet glooms of such a piteous theme.

XX.

Grant thou a pardon here, and then the tale
Shall move on soberly, as it is meet;
There is no other crime, no mad assail
To make old prose in modern rhyme more sweet:
But it is done--succeed the verse or fail--
To honour thee, and thy gone spirit greet;
To stead thee as a verse in English tongue,
An echo of thee in the north-wind sung.

XXI.

These brethren having found by many signs
What love Lorenzo for their sister had,
And how she lov'd him too, each unconfines
His bitter thoughts to other, well nigh mad
That he, the servant of their trade designs,
Should in their sister's love be blithe and glad,
When 'twas their plan to coax her by degrees
To some high noble and his olive-trees.

XXII.

And many a jealous conference had they,
And many times they bit their lips alone,
Before they fix'd upon a surest way
To make the youngster for his crime atone;
And at the last, these men of cruel clay
Cut Mercy with a sharp knife to the bone;
For they resolved in some forest dim
To kill Lorenzo, and there bury him.

XXIII.

So on a pleasant morning, as he leant
Into the sun-rise, o'er the balustrade
Of the garden-terrace, towards him they bent
Their footing through the dews; and to him said,
"You seem there in the quiet of content,
Lorenzo, and we are most loth to invade
Calm speculation; but if you are wise,
Bestride your steed while cold is in the skies.

XXIV.

"To-day we purpose, ay, this hour we mount
To spur three leagues towards the Apennine;
Come down, we pray thee, ere the hot sun count
His dewy rosary on the eglantine."
Lorenzo, courteously as he was wont,
Bow'd a fair greeting to these serpents' whine;
And went in haste, to get in readiness,
With belt, and spur, and bracing huntsman's dress.

XXV.

And as he to the court-yard pass'd along,
Each third step did he pause, and listen'd oft
If he could hear his lady's matin-song,
Or the light whisper of her footstep soft;
And as he thus over his passion hung,
He heard a laugh full musical aloft;
When, looking up, he saw her features bright
Smile through an in-door lattice, all delight.

XXVI.

"Love, Isabel!" said he, "I was in pain
Lest I should miss to bid thee a good morrow
Ah! what if I should lose thee, when so fain
I am to stifle all the heavy sorrow
Of a poor three hours' absence? but we'll gain
Out of the amorous dark what day doth borrow.
Goodbye! I'll soon be back."--"Goodbye!" said she:--
And as he went she chanted merrily.

XXVII.

So the two brothers and their murder'd man
Rode past fair Florence, to where Arno's stream
Gurgles through straiten'd banks, and still doth fan
Itself with dancing bulrush, and the bream
Keeps head against the freshets. Sick and wan
The brothers' faces in the ford did seem,
Lorenzo's flush with love.--They pass'd the water
Into a forest quiet for the slaughter.

XXVIII.

There was Lorenzo slain and buried in,
There in that forest did his great love cease;
Ah! when a soul doth thus its freedom win,
It aches in loneliness--is ill at peace
As the break-covert blood-hounds of such sin:
They dipp'd their swords in the water, and did tease
Their horses homeward, with convulsed spur,
Each richer by his being a murderer.

XXIX.

They told their sister how, with sudden speed,
Lorenzo had ta'en ship for foreign lands,
Because of some great urgency and need
In their affairs, requiring trusty hands.
Poor Girl! put on thy stifling widow's weed,
And 'scape at once from Hope's accursed bands;
To-day thou wilt not see him, nor to-morrow,
And the next day will be a day of sorrow.

XXX.

She weeps alone for pleasures not to be;
Sorely she wept until the night came on,
And then, instead of love, O misery!
She brooded o'er the luxury alone:
His image in the dusk she seem'd to see,
And to the silence made a gentle moan,
Spreading her perfect arms upon the air,
And on her couch low murmuring "Where? O where?"

XXXI.

But Selfishness, Love's cousin, held not long
Its fiery vigil in her single breast;
She fretted for the golden hour, and hung
Upon the time with feverish unrest--
Not long--for soon into her heart a throng
Of higher occupants, a richer zest,
Came tragic; passion not to be subdued,
And sorrow for her love in travels rude.

XXXII.

In the mid days of autumn, on their eves
The breath of Winter comes from far away,
And the sick west continually bereaves
Of some gold tinge, and plays a roundelay
Of death among the bushes and the leaves,
To make all bare before he dares to stray
From his north cavern. So sweet Isabel
By gradual decay from beauty fell,

XXXIII.

Because Lorenzo came not. Oftentimes
She ask'd her brothers, with an eye all pale,
Striving to be itself, what dungeon climes
Could keep him off so long? They spake a tale
Time after time, to quiet her. Their crimes
Came on them, like a smoke from Hinnom's vale;
And every night in dreams they groan'd aloud,
To see their sister in her snowy shroud.

XXXIV.

And she had died in drowsy ignorance,
But for a thing more deadly dark than all;
It came like a fierce potion, drunk by chance,
Which saves a sick man from the feather'd pall
For some few gasping moments; like a lance,
Waking an Indian from his cloudy hall
With cruel pierce, and bringing him again
Sense of the gnawing fire at heart and brain.

XXXV.

It was a vision.--In the drowsy gloom,
The dull of midnight, at her couch's foot
Lorenzo stood, and wept: the forest tomb
Had marr'd his glossy hair which once could shoot
Lustre into the sun, and put cold doom
Upon his lips, and taken the soft lute
From his lorn voice, and past his loamed ears
Had made a miry channel for his tears.

XXXVI.

Strange sound it was, when the pale shadow spake;
For there was striving, in its piteous tongue,
To speak as when on earth it was awake,
And Isabella on its music hung:
Languor there was in it, and tremulous shake,
As in a palsied Druid's harp unstrung;
And through it moan'd a ghostly under-song,
Like hoarse night-gusts sepulchral briars among.

XXXVII.

Its eyes, though wild, were still all dewy bright
With love, and kept all phantom fear aloof
From the poor girl by magic of their light,
The while it did unthread the horrid woof
Of the late darken'd time,--the murderous spite
Of pride and avarice,--the dark pine roof
In the forest,--and the sodden turfed dell,
Where, without any word, from stabs he fell.

XXXVIII.

Saying moreover, "Isabel, my sweet!
Red whortle-berries droop above my head,
And a large flint-stone weighs upon my feet;
Around me beeches and high chestnuts shed
Their leaves and prickly nuts; a sheep-fold bleat
Comes from beyond the river to my bed:
Go, shed one tear upon my heather-bloom,
And it shall comfort me within the tomb.

XXXIX.

"I am a shadow now, alas! alas!
Upon the skirts of human-nature dwelling
Alone: I chant alone the holy mass,
While little sounds of life are round me knelling,
And glossy bees at noon do fieldward pass,
And many a chapel bell the hour is telling,
Paining me through: those sounds grow strange to me,
And thou art distant in Humanity.

XL.

"I know what was, I feel full well what is,
And I should rage, if spirits could go mad;
Though I forget the taste of earthly bliss,
That paleness warms my grave, as though I had
A Seraph chosen from the bright abyss
To be my spouse: thy paleness makes me glad;
Thy beauty grows upon me, and I feel
A greater love through all my essence steal."

XLI.

The Spirit mourn'd "Adieu!"--dissolv'd, and left
The atom darkness in a slow turmoil;
As when of healthful midnight sleep bereft,
Thinking on rugged hours and fruitless toil,
We put our eyes into a pillowy cleft,
And see the spangly gloom froth up and boil:
It made sad Isabella's eyelids ache,
And in the dawn she started up awake;

XLII.

"Ha! ha!" said she, "I knew not this hard life,
I thought the worst was simple misery;
I thought some Fate with pleasure or with strife
Portion'd us--happy days, or else to die;
But there is crime--a brother's bloody knife!
Sweet Spirit, thou hast school'd my infancy:
I'll visit thee for this, and kiss thine eyes,
And greet thee morn and even in the skies."

XLIII.

When the full morning came, she had devised
How she might secret to the forest hie;
How she might find the clay, so dearly prized,
And sing to it one latest lullaby;
How her short absence might be unsurmised,
While she the inmost of the dream would try.
Resolv'd, she took with her an aged nurse,
And went into that dismal forest-hearse.

XLIV.

See, as they creep along the river side,
How she doth whisper to that aged Dame,
And, after looking round the champaign wide,
Shows her a knife.--"What feverous hectic flame
Burns in thee, child?--What good can thee betide,
That thou should'st smile again?"--The evening came,
And they had found Lorenzo's earthy bed;
The flint was there, the berries at his head.

XLV.

Who hath not loiter'd in a green church-yard,
And let his spirit, like a demon-mole,
Work through the clayey soil and gravel hard,
To see scull, coffin'd bones, and funeral stole;
Pitying each form that hungry Death hath marr'd,
And filling it once more with human soul?
Ah! this is holiday to what was felt
When Isabella by Lorenzo knelt.

XLVI.

She gaz'd into the fresh-thrown mould, as though
One glance did fully all its secrets tell;
Clearly she saw, as other eyes would know
Pale limbs at bottom of a crystal well;
Upon the murderous spot she seem'd to grow,
Like to a native lily of the dell:
Then with her knife, all sudden, she began
To dig more fervently than misers can.

XLVII.

Soon she turn'd up a soiled glove, whereon
Her silk had play'd in purple phantasies,
She kiss'd it with a lip more chill than stone,
And put it in her bosom, where it dries
And freezes utterly unto the bone
Those dainties made to still an infant's cries:
Then 'gan she work again; nor stay'd her care,
But to throw back at times her veiling hair.

XLVIII.

That old nurse stood beside her wondering,
Until her heart felt pity to the core
At sight of such a dismal labouring,
And so she kneeled, with her locks all hoar,
And put her lean hands to the horrid thing:
Three hours they labour'd at this travail sore;
At last they felt the kernel of the grave,
And Isabella did not stamp and rave.

XLIX.

Ah! wherefore all this wormy circumstance?
Why linger at the yawning tomb so long?
O for the gentleness of old Romance,
The simple plaining of a minstrel's song!
Fair reader, at the old tale take a glance,
For here, in truth, it doth not well belong
To speak:--O turn thee to the very tale,
And taste the music of that vision pale.

L.

With duller steel than the Perséan sword
They cut away no formless monster's head,
But one, whose gentleness did well accord
With death, as life. The ancient harps have said,
Love never dies, but lives, immortal Lord:
If Love impersonate was ever dead,
Pale Isabella kiss'd it, and low moan'd.
'Twas love; cold,--dead indeed, but not dethroned.

LI.

In anxious secrecy they took it home,
And then the prize was all for Isabel:
She calm'd its wild hair with a golden comb,
And all around each eye's sepulchral cell
Pointed each fringed lash; the smeared loam
With tears, as chilly as a dripping well,
She drench'd away:--and still she comb'd, and kept
Sighing all day--and still she kiss'd, and wept.

LII.

Then in a silken scarf,--sweet with the dews
Of precious flowers pluck'd in Araby,
And divine liquids come with odorous ooze
Through the cold serpent-pipe refreshfully,--
She wrapp'd it up; and for its tomb did choose
A garden-pot, wherein she laid it by,
And cover'd it with mould, and o'er it set
Sweet Basil, which her tears kept ever wet.

LIII.

And she forgot the stars, the moon, and sun,
And she forgot the blue above the trees,
And she forgot the dells where waters run,
And she forgot the chilly autumn breeze;
She had no knowledge when the day was done,
And the new morn she saw not: but in peace
Hung over her sweet Basil evermore,
And moisten'd it with tears unto the core.

LIV.

And so she ever fed it with thin tears,
Whence thick, and green, and beautiful it grew,
So that it smelt more balmy than its peers
Of Basil-tufts in Florence; for it drew
Nurture besides, and life, from human fears,
From the fast mouldering head there shut from view:
So that the jewel, safely casketed,
Came forth, and in perfumed leafits spread.

LV.

O Melancholy, linger here awhile!
O Music, Music, breathe despondingly!
O Echo, Echo, from some sombre isle,
Unknown, Lethean, sigh to us--O sigh!
Spirits in grief, lift up your heads, and smile;
Lift up your heads, sweet Spirits, heavily,
And make a pale light in your cypress glooms,
Tinting with silver wan your marble tombs.

LVI.

Moan hither, all ye syllables of woe,
From the deep throat of sad Melpomene!
Through bronzed lyre in tragic order go,
And touch the strings into a mystery;
Sound mournfully upon the winds and low;
For simple Isabel is soon to be
Among the dead: She withers, like a palm
Cut by an Indian for its juicy balm.

LVII.

O leave the palm to wither by itself;
Let not quick Winter chill its dying hour!--
It may not be--those Baälites of pelf,
Her brethren, noted the continual shower
From her dead eyes; and many a curious elf,
Among her kindred, wonder'd that such dower
Of youth and beauty should be thrown aside
By one mark'd out to be a Noble's bride.

LVIII.

And, furthermore, her brethren wonder'd much
Why she sat drooping by the Basil green,
And why it flourish'd, as by magic touch;
Greatly they wonder'd what the thing might mean:
They could not surely give belief, that such
A very nothing would have power to wean
Her from her own fair youth, and pleasures gay,
And even remembrance of her love's delay.

LIX.

Therefore they watch'd a time when they might sift
This hidden whim; and long they watch'd in vain;
For seldom did she go to chapel-shrift,
And seldom felt she any hunger-pain;
And when she left, she hurried back, as swift
As bird on wing to breast its eggs again;
And, patient, as a hen-bird, sat her there
Beside her Basil, weeping through her hair.

LX.

Yet they contriv'd to steal the Basil-pot,
And to examine it in secret place:
The thing was vile with green and livid spot,
And yet they knew it was Lorenzo's face:
The guerdon of their murder they had got,
And so left Florence in a moment's space,
Never to turn again.--Away they went,
With blood upon their heads, to banishment.

LXI.

O Melancholy, turn thine eyes away!
O Music, Music, breathe despondingly!
O Echo, Echo, on some other day,
From isles Lethean, sigh to us--O sigh!
Spirits of grief, sing not your "Well-a-way!"
For Isabel, sweet Isabel, will die;
Will die a death too lone and incomplete,
Now they have ta'en away her Basil sweet.

LXII.

Piteous she look'd on dead and senseless things,
Asking for her lost Basil amorously;
And with melodious chuckle in the strings
Of her lorn voice, she oftentimes would cry
After the Pilgrim in his wanderings,
To ask him where her Basil was; and why
'Twas hid from her: "For cruel 'tis," said she,
"To steal my Basil-pot away from me."

LXIII.

And so she pined, and so she died forlorn,
Imploring for her Basil to the last.
No heart was there in Florence but did mourn
In pity of her love, so overcast.
And a sad ditty of this story born
From mouth to mouth through all the country pass'd:
Still is the burthen sung--"O cruelty,
To steal my Basil-pot away from me!"






1.

My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk,
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk:
'Tis not through envy of thy happy lot,
But being too happy in thine happiness,--
Of beechen green, and shadows numberless,


2.

O, for a draught of vintage! that hath been
Cool'd a long age in the deep-delved earth,
Tasting of Flora and the country green,
Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth!
O for a beaker full of the warm South,
Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene,
That I might drink, and leave the world unseen,


3.

Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget
What thou among the leaves hast never known,
The weariness, the fever, and the fret
Here, where men sit and hear each other groan;
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs,
Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies;
Where Beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes,


4.

Away! away! for I will fly to thee,
Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards,
But on the viewless wings of Poesy,
Though the dull brain perplexes and retards:
Already with thee! tender is the night,
And haply the Queen-Moon is on her throne,
Save what from heaven is with the breezes blown


5.

I cannot see what flowers are at my feet,
Nor what soft incense hangs upon the boughs,
But, in embalmed darkness, guess each sweet
Wherewith the seasonable month endows
The grass, the thicket, and the fruit-tree wild;
White hawthorn, and the pastoral eglantine;
The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine,


6.

Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
I have been half in love with easeful Death,
Call'd him soft names in many a mused rhyme,
To take into the air my quiet breath;
Now more than ever seems it rich to die,
To cease upon the midnight with no pain,
Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain--


7.

Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!
No hungry generations tread thee down;
The voice I hear this passing night was heard
In ancient days by emperor and clown:
Perhaps the self-same song that found a path
Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home,
Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam


8.

Forlorn! the very word is like a bell
To toll me back from thee to my sole self!
Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well
As she is fam'd to do, deceiving elf.
Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades
Past the near meadows, over the still stream,
Was it a vision, or a waking dream?






1.

Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness,
Thou foster-child of silence and slow time,
Sylvan historian, who canst thus express
A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme:
What leaf-fring'd legend haunts about thy shape
Of deities or mortals, or of both,
What men or gods are these? What maidens loth?
What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?


2.

Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;
Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear'd,
Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:
Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;


She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,


3.

Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed
Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu;
And, happy melodist, unwearied,
For ever piping songs for ever new;
More happy love! more happy, happy love!
For ever warm and still to be enjoy'd,


That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy'd,


4.

Who are these coming to the sacrifice?
To what green altar, O mysterious priest,
Lead'st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,
And all her silken flanks with garlands drest?
What little town by river or sea shore,
Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel,


Will silent be; and not a soul to tell


5.

O Attic shape! Fair attitude! with brede
Of marble men and maidens overwrought,
With forest branches and the trodden weed;
Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thought
As doth eternity: Cold Pastoral!
When old age shall this generation waste,


"Beauty is truth, truth beauty,"--that is all





ODE TO PSYCHE.


O Goddess! hear these tuneless numbers, wrung
By sweet enforcement and remembrance dear,
And pardon that thy secrets should be sung
Even into thine own soft-conched ear:
Surely I dreamt to-day, or did I see
The winged Psyche with awaken'd eyes?
I wander'd in a forest thoughtlessly,
And, on the sudden, fainting with surprise,
Saw two fair creatures, couched side by side
In deepest grass, beneath the whisp'ring roof
Of leaves and trembled blossoms, where there ran


Blue, silver-white, and budded Tyrian,
They lay calm-breathing on the bedded grass;
Their arms embraced, and their pinions too;
Their lips touch'd not, but had not bade adieu,
As if disjoined by soft-handed slumber,
And ready still past kisses to outnumber
At tender eye-dawn of aurorean love:
But who wast thou, O happy, happy dove?


O latest born and loveliest vision far
Of all Olympus' faded hierarchy!
Fairer than Phoebe's sapphire-region'd star,
Or Vesper, amorous glow-worm of the sky;
Fairer than these, though temple thou hast none,




From chain-swung censer teeming;
No shrine, no grove, no oracle, no heat
Of pale-mouth'd prophet dreaming.

O brightest! though too late for antique vows,
Too, too late for the fond believing lyre,
When holy were the haunted forest boughs,
Holy the air, the water, and the fire;
Yet even in these days so far retir'd
From happy pieties, thy lucent fans,
Fluttering among the faint Olympians,
I see, and sing, by my own eyes inspired.
So let me be thy choir, and make a moan


From swinged censer teeming;
Thy shrine, thy grove, thy oracle, thy heat
Of pale-mouth'd prophet dreaming.

Yes, I will be thy priest, and build a fane
In some untrodden region of my mind,
Where branched thoughts, new grown with pleasant pain,
Instead of pines shall murmur in the wind:
Far, far around shall those dark-cluster'd trees
Fledge the wild-ridged mountains steep by steep;
And there by zephyrs, streams, and birds, and bees,
The moss-lain Dryads shall be lull'd to sleep;
And in the midst of this wide quietness
A rosy sanctuary will I dress
With the wreath'd trellis of a working brain,
With buds, and bells, and stars without a name,
With all the gardener Fancy e'er could feign,
Who breeding flowers, will never breed the same:
And there shall be for thee all soft delight
That shadowy thought can win,
A bright torch, and a casement ope at night,
To let the warm Love in!






Ever let the Fancy roam,
Pleasure never is at home:
At a touch sweet Pleasure melteth,
Like to bubbles when rain pelteth;
Then let winged Fancy wander
Through the thought still spread beyond her:
Open wide the mind's cage-door,
She'll dart forth, and cloudward soar.
O sweet Fancy! let her loose;
Summer's joys are spoilt by use,
And the enjoying of the Spring
Fades as does its blossoming;
Autumn's red-lipp'd fruitage too,
Blushing through the mist and dew,
Cloys with tasting: What do then?
Sit thee by the ingle, when
The sear faggot blazes bright,
Spirit of a winter's night;
When the soundless earth is muffled,
And the caked snow is shuffled
From the ploughboy's heavy shoon;
When the Night doth meet the Noon
In a dark conspiracy
To banish Even from her sky.
Sit thee there, and send abroad,
With a mind self-overaw'd,
Fancy, high-commission'd:--send her!
She has vassals to attend her:
She will bring, in spite of frost,
Beauties that the earth hath lost;
She will bring thee, all together,
All delights of summer weather;
All the buds and bells of May,
From dewy sward or thorny spray
All the heaped Autumn's wealth,
With a still, mysterious stealth:
She will mix these pleasures up
Like three fit wines in a cup,
And thou shalt quaff it:--thou shalt hear
Distant harvest-carols clear;
Rustle of the reaped corn;
Sweet birds antheming the morn:
And, in the same moment--hark!
'Tis the early April lark,
Or the rooks, with busy caw,
Foraging for sticks and straw.
Thou shalt, at one glance, behold
The daisy and the marigold;
White-plum'd lilies, and the first
Hedge-grown primrose that hath burst;
Shaded hyacinth, alway
Sapphire queen of the mid-May;
And every leaf, and every flower
Pearled with the self-same shower.
Thou shalt see the field-mouse peep
Meagre from its celled sleep;
And the snake all winter-thin
Cast on sunny bank its skin;
Freckled nest-eggs thou shalt see
Hatching in the hawthorn-tree,
When the hen-bird's wing doth rest
Quiet on her mossy nest;
Then the hurry and alarm
When the bee-hive casts its swarm;
Acorns ripe down-pattering,
While the autumn breezes sing.

Oh, sweet Fancy! let her loose;
Every thing is spoilt by use:
Where's the cheek that doth not fade,
Too much gaz'd at? Where's the maid
Whose lip mature is ever new?
Where's the eye, however blue,
Doth not weary? Where's the face
One would meet in every place?
Where's the voice, however soft,
One would hear so very oft?
At a touch sweet Pleasure melteth
Like to bubbles when rain pelteth.
Let, then, winged Fancy find
Thee a mistress to thy mind:
Dulcet-eyed as Ceres' daughter,
Ere the God of Torment taught her
How to frown and how to chide;
With a waist and with a side
White as Hebe's, when her zone
Slipt its golden clasp, and down
Fell her kirtle to her feet,
While she held the goblet sweet,
And Jove grew languid.--Break the mesh
Of the Fancy's silken leash;
Quickly break her prison-string
And such joys as these she'll bring.--
Let the winged Fancy roam
Pleasure never is at home.



Bards of Passion and of Mirth,
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Have ye souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new?
Yes, and those of heaven commune
With the spheres of sun and moon;
With the noise of fountains wond'rous,
And the parle of voices thund'rous;
With the whisper of heaven's trees
And one another, in soft ease
Seated on Elysian lawns
Brows'd by none but Dian's fawns
Underneath large blue-bells tented,
Where the daisies are rose-scented,
And the rose herself has got
Perfume which on earth is not;
Where the nightingale doth sing
Not a senseless, tranced thing,
But divine melodious truth;
Philosophic numbers smooth;
Tales and golden histories
Of heaven and its mysteries.

Thus ye live on high, and then
On the earth ye live again;
And the souls ye left behind you
Teach us, here, the way to find you,
Where your other souls are joying,
Never slumber'd, never cloying.
Here, your earth-born souls still speak
To mortals, of their little week;
Of their sorrows and delights;
Of their passions and their spites;
Of their glory and their shame;
What doth strengthen and what maim.
Thus ye teach us, every day,
Wisdom, though fled far away.

Bards of Passion and of Mirth,
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Ye have souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new!




Souls of Poets dead and gone,
What Elysium have ye known,
Happy field or mossy cavern,
Choicer than the Mermaid Tavern?
Have ye tippled drink more fine
Than mine host's Canary wine?
Or are fruits of Paradise
Sweeter than those dainty pies
Of venison? O generous food!
Drest as though bold Robin Hood
Would, with his maid Marian,
Sup and bowse from horn and can.

I have heard that on a day
Mine host's sign-board flew away,
Nobody knew whither, till
An astrologer's old quill
To a sheepskin gave the story,
Said he saw you in your glory,
Underneath a new old-sign
Sipping beverage divine,
And pledging with contented smack
The Mermaid in the Zodiac.

Souls of Poets dead and gone,
What Elysium have ye known,
Happy field or mossy cavern,
Choicer than the Mermaid Tavern?






No! those days are gone away,
And their hours are old and gray,
And their minutes buried all
Under the down-trodden pall
Of the leaves of many years:
Many times have winter's shears,
Frozen North, and chilling East,
Sounded tempests to the feast
Of the forest's whispering fleeces,
Since men knew nor rent nor leases.

No, the bugle sounds no more,
And the twanging bow no more;
Silent is the ivory shrill
Past the heath and up the hill;
There is no mid-forest laugh,
Where lone Echo gives the half
To some wight, amaz'd to hear
Jesting, deep in forest drear.

On the fairest time of June
You may go, with sun or moon,
Or the seven stars to light you,
Or the polar ray to right you;
But you never may behold
Little John, or Robin bold;
Never one, of all the clan,
Thrumming on an empty can
Some old hunting ditty, while
He doth his green way beguile
To fair hostess Merriment,
Down beside the pasture Trent;
For he left the merry tale
Messenger for spicy ale.

Gone, the merry morris din;
Gone, the song of Gamelyn;
Gone, the tough-belted outlaw
Idling in the "grenè shawe;"
All are gone away and past!
And if Robin should be cast
Sudden from his turfed grave,
And if Marian should have
Once again her forest days,
She would weep, and he would craze:
He would swear, for all his oaks,
Fall'n beneath the dockyard strokes,
Have rotted on the briny seas;
She would weep that her wild bees
Sang not to her--strange! that honey
Can't be got without hard money!

So it is: yet let us sing,
Honour to the old bow-string!
Honour to the bugle-horn!
Honour to the woods unshorn!
Honour to the Lincoln green!
Honour to the archer keen!
Honour to tight little John,
And the horse he rode upon!
Honour to bold Robin Hood,
Sleeping in the underwood!
Honour to maid Marian,
And to all the Sherwood-clan!
Though their days have hurried by
Let us two a burden try.






1.

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness,
Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun;
Conspiring with him how to load and bless
With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eves run;
To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees,
And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core;


And still more, later flowers for the bees,
Until they think warm days will never cease,


2.

Who hath not seen thee oft amid thy store?
Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find
Thee sitting careless on a granary floor,
Thy hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind;
Or on a half-reap'd furrow sound asleep,
Drows'd with the fume of poppies, while thy hook


Steady thy laden head across a brook;
Or by a cyder-press, with patient look,


3.

Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?
Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,--
While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day,
And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue;
Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn
Among the river sallows, borne aloft


Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft
The red-breast whistles from a garden-croft;







1.

No, no, go not to Lethe, neither twist
Wolf's-bane, tight-rooted, for its poisonous wine;
Nor suffer thy pale forehead to be kiss'd
By nightshade, ruby grape of Proserpine;
Make not your rosary of yew-berries,
Nor let the beetle, nor the death-moth be


For shade to shade will come too drowsily,


2.

But when the melancholy fit shall fall
Sudden from heaven like a weeping cloud,
That fosters the droop-headed flowers all,
And hides the green hill in an April shroud;
Then glut thy sorrow on a morning rose,
Or on the rainbow of the salt sand-wave,


Emprison her soft hand, and let her rave,


3.

She dwells with Beauty--Beauty that must die;
And Joy, whose hand is ever at his lips
Bidding adieu; and aching Pleasure nigh,
Turning to poison while the bee-mouth sips:
Ay, in the very temple of Delight
Veil'd Melancholy has her sovran shrine,


His soul shall taste the sadness of her might,





BOOK I.

Deep in the shady sadness of a vale
Far sunken from the healthy breath of morn,
Far from the fiery noon, and eve's one star,
Sat gray-hair'd Saturn, quiet as a stone,
Still as the silence round about his lair;
Forest on forest hung about his head
Like cloud on cloud. No stir of air was there,
Not so much life as on a summer's day
Robs not one light seed from the feather'd grass,
But where the dead leaf fell, there did it rest.
A stream went voiceless by, still deadened more
By reason of his fallen divinity
Spreading a shade: the Naiad 'mid her reeds
Press'd her cold finger closer to her lips.

Along the margin-sand large foot-marks went,
No further than to where his feet had stray'd,
And slept there since. Upon the sodden ground
His old right hand lay nerveless, listless, dead,
Unsceptred; and his realmless eyes were closed;
While his bow'd head seem'd list'ning to the Earth,
His ancient mother, for some comfort yet.

It seem'd no force could wake him from his place;
But there came one, who with a kindred hand
Touch'd his wide shoulders, after bending low
With reverence, though to one who knew it not.
She was a Goddess of the infant world;
By her in stature the tall Amazon
Had stood a pigmy's height: she would have ta'en
Achilles by the hair and bent his neck;
Or with a finger stay'd Ixion's wheel.
Her face was large as that of Memphian sphinx,
Pedestal'd haply in a palace court,
When sages look'd to Egypt for their lore.
But oh! how unlike marble was that face:
How beautiful, if sorrow had not made
Sorrow more beautiful than Beauty's self.
There was a listening fear in her regard,
As if calamity had but begun;
As if the vanward clouds of evil days
Had spent their malice, and the sullen rear
Was with its stored thunder labouring up.
One hand she press'd upon that aching spot
Where beats the human heart, as if just there,
Though an immortal, she felt cruel pain:
The other upon Saturn's bended neck
She laid, and to the level of his ear
Leaning with parted lips, some words she spake
In solemn tenour and deep organ tone:
Some mourning words, which in our feeble tongue
Would come in these like accents; O how frail
To that large utterance of the early Gods!
"Saturn, look up!--though wherefore, poor old King?
I have no comfort for thee, no not one:
I cannot say, 'O wherefore sleepest thou?'
For heaven is parted from thee, and the earth
Knows thee not, thus afflicted, for a God;
And ocean too, with all its solemn noise,
Has from thy sceptre pass'd; and all the air
Is emptied of thine hoary majesty.
Thy thunder, conscious of the new command,
Rumbles reluctant o'er our fallen house;
And thy sharp lightning in unpractised hands
Scorches and burns our once serene domain.
O aching time! O moments big as years!
All as ye pass swell out the monstrous truth,
And press it so upon our weary griefs
That unbelief has not a space to breathe.
Saturn, sleep on:--O thoughtless, why did I
Thus violate thy slumbrous solitude?
Why should I ope thy melancholy eyes?
Saturn, sleep on! while at thy feet I weep."

As when, upon a tranced summer-night,
Those green-rob'd senators of mighty woods,
Tall oaks, branch-charmed by the earnest stars,
Dream, and so dream all night without a stir,
Save from one gradual solitary gust
Which comes upon the silence, and dies off,
As if the ebbing air had but one wave;
So came these words and went; the while in tears
She touch'd her fair large forehead to the ground,
Just where her falling hair might be outspread
A soft and silken mat for Saturn's feet.
One moon, with alteration slow, had shed
Her silver seasons four upon the night,
And still these two were postured motionless,
Like natural sculpture in cathedral cavern;
The frozen God still couchant on the earth,
And the sad Goddess weeping at his feet:
Until at length old Saturn lifted up
His faded eyes, and saw his kingdom gone,
And all the gloom and sorrow of the place,
And that fair kneeling Goddess; and then spake,
As with a palsied tongue, and while his beard
Shook horrid with such aspen-malady:
"O tender spouse of gold Hyperion,
Thea, I feel thee ere I see thy face;
Look up, and let me see our doom in it;
Look up, and tell me if this feeble shape
Is Saturn's; tell me, if thou hear'st the voice
Of Saturn; tell me, if this wrinkling brow,
Naked and bare of its great diadem,
Peers like the front of Saturn. Who had power
To make me desolate? whence came the strength?
How was it nurtur'd to such bursting forth,
While Fate seem'd strangled in my nervous grasp?
But it is so; and I am smother'd up,
And buried from all godlike exercise
Of influence benign on planets pale,
Of admonitions to the winds and seas,
Of peaceful sway above man's harvesting,
And all those acts which Deity supreme
Doth ease its heart of love in.--I am gone
Away from my own bosom: I have left
My strong identity, my real self,
Somewhere between the throne, and where I sit
Here on this spot of earth. Search, Thea, search!
Open thine eyes eterne, and sphere them round
Upon all space: space starr'd, and lorn of light;
Space region'd with life-air; and barren void;
Spaces of fire, and all the yawn of hell.--
Search, Thea, search! and tell me, if thou seest
A certain shape or shadow, making way
With wings or chariot fierce to repossess
A heaven he lost erewhile: it must--it must
Be of ripe progress--Saturn must be King.
Yes, there must be a golden victory;
There must be Gods thrown down, and trumpets blown
Of triumph calm, and hymns of festival
Upon the gold clouds metropolitan,
Voices of soft proclaim, and silver stir
Of strings in hollow shells; and there shall be
Beautiful things made new, for the surprise
Of the sky-children; I will give command:
Thea! Thea! Thea! where is Saturn?"

This passion lifted him upon his feet,
And made his hands to struggle in the air,
His Druid locks to shake and ooze with sweat,
His eyes to fever out, his voice to cease.
He stood, and heard not Thea's sobbing deep;
A little time, and then again he snatch'd
Utterance thus.--"But cannot I create?
Cannot I form? Cannot I fashion forth
Another world, another universe,
To overbear and crumble this to nought?
Where is another chaos? Where?"--That word
Found way unto Olympus, and made quake
The rebel three.--Thea was startled up,
And in her bearing was a sort of hope,
As thus she quick-voic'd spake, yet full of awe.

"This cheers our fallen house: come to our friends,
O Saturn! come away, and give them heart;
I know the covert, for thence came I hither."
Thus brief; then with beseeching eyes she went
With backward footing through the shade a space:
He follow'd, and she turn'd to lead the way
Through aged boughs, that yielded like the mist
Which eagles cleave upmounting from their nest.

Meanwhile in other realms big tears were shed,
More sorrow like to this, and such like woe,
Too huge for mortal tongue or pen of scribe:
The Titans fierce, self-hid, or prison-bound,
Groan'd for the old allegiance once more,
And listen'd in sharp pain for Saturn's voice.
But one of the whole mammoth-brood still kept
His sov'reignty, and rule, and majesty;--
Blazing Hyperion on his orbed fire
Still sat, still snuff'd the incense, teeming up
From man to the sun's God; yet unsecure:
For as among us mortals omens drear
Fright and perplex, so also shuddered he--
Not at dog's howl, or gloom-bird's hated screech,
Or the familiar visiting of one
Upon the first toll of his passing-bell,
Or prophesyings of the midnight lamp;
But horrors, portion'd to a giant nerve,
Oft made Hyperion ache. His palace bright
Bastion'd with pyramids of glowing gold,
And touch'd with shade of bronzed obelisks,
Glar'd a blood-red through all its thousand courts,
Arches, and domes, and fiery galleries;
And all its curtains of Aurorian clouds
Flush'd angerly: while sometimes eagle's wings,
Unseen before by Gods or wondering men,
Darken'd the place; and neighing steeds were heard,
Not heard before by Gods or wondering men.
Also, when he would taste the spicy wreaths
Of incense, breath'd aloft from sacred hills,
Instead of sweets, his ample palate took
Savour of poisonous brass and metal sick:
And so, when harbour'd in the sleepy west,
After the full completion of fair day,--
For rest divine upon exalted couch
And slumber in the arms of melody,
He pac'd away the pleasant hours of ease
With stride colossal, on from hall to hall;
While far within each aisle and deep recess,
His winged minions in close clusters stood,
Amaz'd and full of fear; like anxious men
Who on wide plains gather in panting troops,
When earthquakes jar their battlements and towers.
Even now, while Saturn, rous'd from icy trance,
Went step for step with Thea through the woods,
Hyperion, leaving twilight in the rear,
Came slope upon the threshold of the west;
Then, as was wont, his palace-door flew ope
In smoothest silence, save what solemn tubes,
Blown by the serious Zephyrs, gave of sweet
And wandering sounds, slow-breathed melodies;
And like a rose in vermeil tint and shape,
In fragrance soft, and coolness to the eye,
That inlet to severe magnificence
Stood full blown, for the God to enter in.

He enter'd, but he enter'd full of wrath;
His flaming robes stream'd out beyond his heels,
And gave a roar, as if of earthly fire,
That scar'd away the meek ethereal Hours
And made their dove-wings tremble. On he flared,
From stately nave to nave, from vault to vault,
Through bowers of fragrant and enwreathed light,
And diamond-paved lustrous long arcades,
Until he reach'd the great main cupola;
There standing fierce beneath, he stampt his foot,
And from the basements deep to the high towers
Jarr'd his own golden region; and before
The quavering thunder thereupon had ceas'd,
His voice leapt out, despite of godlike curb,
To this result: "O dreams of day and night!
O monstrous forms! O effigies of pain!
O spectres busy in a cold, cold gloom!
O lank-eared Phantoms of black-weeded pools!
Why do I know ye? why have I seen ye? why
Is my eternal essence thus distraught
To see and to behold these horrors new?
Saturn is fallen, am I too to fall?
Am I to leave this haven of my rest,
This cradle of my glory, this soft clime,
This calm luxuriance of blissful light,
These crystalline pavilions, and pure fanes,
Of all my lucent empire? It is left
Deserted, void, nor any haunt of mine.
The blaze, the splendor, and the symmetry,
I cannot see--but darkness, death and darkness.
Even here, into my centre of repose,
The shady visions come to domineer,
Insult, and blind, and stifle up my pomp.--
Fall!--No, by Tellus and her briny robes!
Over the fiery frontier of my realms
I will advance a terrible right arm
Shall scare that infant thunderer, rebel Jove,
And bid old Saturn take his throne again."--
He spake, and ceas'd, the while a heavier threat
Held struggle with his throat but came not forth;
For as in theatres of crowded men
Hubbub increases more they call out "Hush!"
So at Hyperion's words the Phantoms pale
Bestirr'd themselves, thrice horrible and cold;
And from the mirror'd level where he stood
A mist arose, as from a scummy marsh.
At this, through all his bulk an agony
Crept gradual, from the feet unto the crown,
Like a lithe serpent vast and muscular
Making slow way, with head and neck convuls'd
From over-strained might. Releas'd, he fled
To the eastern gates, and full six dewy hours
Before the dawn in season due should blush,
He breath'd fierce breath against the sleepy portals,
Clear'd them of heavy vapours, burst them wide
Suddenly on the ocean's chilly streams.
The planet orb of fire, whereon he rode
Each day from east to west the heavens through,
Spun round in sable curtaining of clouds;
Not therefore veiled quite, blindfold, and hid,
But ever and anon the glancing spheres,
Circles, and arcs, and broad-belting colure,
Glow'd through, and wrought upon the muffling dark
Sweet-shaped lightnings from the nadir deep
Up to the zenith,--hieroglyphics old,
Which sages and keen-eyed astrologers
Then living on the earth, with labouring thought
Won from the gaze of many centuries:
Now lost, save what we find on remnants huge
Of stone, or marble swart; their import gone,
Their wisdom long since fled.--Two wings this orb
Possess'd for glory, two fair argent wings,
Ever exalted at the God's approach:
And now, from forth the gloom their plumes immense
Rose, one by one, till all outspreaded were;
While still the dazzling globe maintain'd eclipse,
Awaiting for Hyperion's command.
Fain would he have commanded, fain took throne
And bid the day begin, if but for change.
He might not:--No, though a primeval God:
The sacred seasons might not be disturb'd.
Therefore the operations of the dawn
Stay'd in their birth, even as here 'tis told.
Those silver wings expanded sisterly,
Eager to sail their orb; the porches wide
Open'd upon the dusk demesnes of night
And the bright Titan, phrenzied with new woes,
Unus'd to bend, by hard compulsion bent
His spirit to the sorrow of the time;
And all along a dismal rack of clouds,
Upon the boundaries of day and night,
He stretch'd himself in grief and radiance faint.
There as he lay, the Heaven with its stars
Look'd down on him with pity, and the voice
Of Coelus, from the universal space,
Thus whisper'd low and solemn in his ear.
"O brightest of my children dear, earth-born
And sky-engendered, Son of Mysteries
All unrevealed even to the powers
Which met at thy creating; at whose joys
And palpitations sweet, and pleasures soft,
I, Coelus, wonder, how they came and whence;
And at the fruits thereof what shapes they be,
Distinct, and visible; symbols divine,
Manifestations of that beauteous life
Diffus'd unseen throughout eternal space:
Of these new-form'd art thou, oh brightest child!
Of these, thy brethren and the Goddesses!
There is sad feud among ye, and rebellion
Of son against his sire. I saw him fall,
I saw my first-born tumbled from his throne!
To me his arms were spread, to me his voice
Found way from forth the thunders round his head!
Pale wox I, and in vapours hid my face.
Art thou, too, near such doom? vague fear there is:
For I have seen my sons most unlike Gods.
Divine ye were created, and divine
In sad demeanour, solemn, undisturb'd,
Unruffled, like high Gods, ye liv'd and ruled:
Now I behold in you fear, hope, and wrath;
Actions of rage and passion; even as
I see them, on the mortal world beneath,
In men who die.--This is the grief, O Son!
Sad sign of ruin, sudden dismay, and fall!
Yet do thou strive; as thou art capable,
As thou canst move about, an evident God;
And canst oppose to each malignant hour
Ethereal presence:--I am but a voice;
My life is but the life of winds and tides,
No more than winds and tides can I avail:--
But thou canst.--Be thou therefore in the van
Of circumstance; yea, seize the arrow's barb
Before the tense string murmur.--To the earth!
For there thou wilt find Saturn, and his woes.
Meantime I will keep watch on thy bright sun,
And of thy seasons be a careful nurse."--
Ere half this region-whisper had come down,
Hyperion arose, and on the stars
Lifted his curved lids, and kept them wide
Until it ceas'd; and still he kept them wide:
And still they were the same bright, patient stars.
Then with a slow incline of his broad breast,
Like to a diver in the pearly seas,
Forward he stoop'd over the airy shore,
And plung'd all noiseless into the deep night.


BOOK II.

Just at the self-same beat of Time's wide wings
Hyperion slid into the rustled air,
And Saturn gain'd with Thea that sad place
Where Cybele and the bruised Titans mourn'd.
It was a den where no insulting light
Could glimmer on their tears; where their own groans
They felt, but heard not, for the solid roar
Of thunderous waterfalls and torrents hoarse,
Pouring a constant bulk, uncertain where.
Crag jutting forth to crag, and rocks that seem'd
Ever as if just rising from a sleep,
Forehead to forehead held their monstrous horns;
And thus in thousand hugest phantasies
Made a fit roofing to this nest of woe.
Instead of thrones, hard flint they sat upon,
Couches of rugged stone, and slaty ridge
Stubborn'd with iron. All were not assembled:
Some chain'd in torture, and some wandering.
Coeus, and Gyges, and Briareüs,
Typhon, and Dolor, and Porphyrion,
With many more, the brawniest in assault,
Were pent in regions of laborious breath;
Dungeon'd in opaque element, to keep
Their clenched teeth still clench'd, and all their limbs
Lock'd up like veins of metal, crampt and screw'd;
Without a motion, save of their big hearts
Heaving in pain, and horribly convuls'd
With sanguine feverous boiling gurge of pulse.
Mnemosyne was straying in the world;
Far from her moon had Phoebe wandered;
And many else were free to roam abroad,
But for the main, here found they covert drear.
Scarce images of life, one here, one there,
Lay vast and edgeways; like a dismal cirque
Of Druid stones, upon a forlorn moor,
When the chill rain begins at shut of eve,
In dull November, and their chancel vault,
The Heaven itself, is blinded throughout night.
Each one kept shroud, nor to his neighbour gave
Or word, or look, or action of despair.
Creüs was one; his ponderous iron mace
Lay by him, and a shatter'd rib of rock
Told of his rage, ere he thus sank and pined.
Iäpetus another; in his grasp,
A serpent's plashy neck; its barbed tongue
Squeez'd from the gorge, and all its uncurl'd length
Dead; and because the creature could not spit
Its poison in the eyes of conquering Jove.
Next Cottus: prone he lay, chin uppermost,
As though in pain; for still upon the flint
He ground severe his skull, with open mouth
And eyes at horrid working. Nearest him
Asia, born of most enormous Caf,
Who cost her mother Tellus keener pangs,
Though feminine, than any of her sons:
More thought than woe was in her dusky face,
For she was prophesying of her glory;
And in her wide imagination stood
Palm-shaded temples, and high rival fanes,
By Oxus or in Ganges' sacred isles.
Even as Hope upon her anchor leans,
So leant she, not so fair, upon a tusk
Shed from the broadest of her elephants.
Above her, on a crag's uneasy shelve,
Upon his elbow rais'd, all prostrate else,
Shadow'd Enceladus; once tame and mild
As grazing ox unworried in the meads;
Now tiger-passion'd, lion-thoughted, wroth,
He meditated, plotted, and even now
Was hurling mountains in that second war,
Not long delay'd, that scar'd the younger Gods
To hide themselves in forms of beast and bird.
Not far hence Atlas; and beside him prone
Phorcus, the sire of Gorgons. Neighbour'd close
Oceanus, and Tethys, in whose lap
Sobb'd Clymene among her tangled hair.
In midst of all lay Themis, at the feet
Of Ops the queen all clouded round from sight;
No shape distinguishable, more than when
Thick night confounds the pine-tops with the clouds:
And many else whose names may not be told.
For when the Muse's wings are air-ward spread,
Who shall delay her flight? And she must chaunt
Of Saturn, and his guide, who now had climb'd
With damp and slippery footing from a depth
More horrid still. Above a sombre cliff
Their heads appear'd, and up their stature grew
Till on the level height their steps found ease:
Then Thea spread abroad her trembling arms
Upon the precincts of this nest of pain,
And sidelong fix'd her eye on Saturn's face:
There saw she direst strife; the supreme God
At war with all the frailty of grief,
Of rage, of fear, anxiety, revenge,
Remorse, spleen, hope, but most of all despair.
Against these plagues he strove in vain; for Fate
Had pour'd a mortal oil upon his head,
A disanointing poison: so that Thea,
Affrighted, kept her still, and let him pass
First onwards in, among the fallen tribe.

As with us mortal men, the laden heart
Is persecuted more, and fever'd more,
When it is nighing to the mournful house
Where other hearts are sick of the same bruise;
So Saturn, as he walk'd into the midst,
Felt faint, and would have sunk among the rest,
But that he met Enceladus's eye,
Whose mightiness, and awe of him, at once
Came like an inspiration; and he shouted,
"Titans, behold your God!" at which some groan'd;
Some started on their feet; some also shouted;
Some wept, some wail'd, all bow'd with reverence;
And Ops, uplifting her black folded veil,
Show'd her pale cheeks, and all her forehead wan,
Her eye-brows thin and jet, and hollow eyes.
There is a roaring in the bleak-grown pines
When Winter lifts his voice; there is a noise
Among immortals when a God gives sign,
With hushing finger, how he means to load
His tongue with the full weight of utterless thought,
With thunder, and with music, and with pomp:
Such noise is like the roar of bleak-grown pines;
Which, when it ceases in this mountain'd world,
No other sound succeeds; but ceasing here,
Among these fallen, Saturn's voice therefrom
Grew up like organ, that begins anew
Its strain, when other harmonies, stopt short,
Leave the dinn'd air vibrating silverly.
Thus grew it up--"Not in my own sad breast,
Which is its own great judge and searcher out,
Can I find reason why ye should be thus:
Not in the legends of the first of days,
Studied from that old spirit-leaved book
Which starry Uranus with finger bright
Sav'd from the shores of darkness, when the waves
Low-ebb'd still hid it up in shallow gloom;--
And the which book ye know I ever kept
For my firm-based footstool:--Ah, infirm!
Not there, nor in sign, symbol, or portent
Of element, earth, water, air, and fire,--
At war, at peace, or inter-quarreling
One against one, or two, or three, or all
Each several one against the other three,
As fire with air loud warring when rain-floods
Drown both, and press them both against earth's face,
Where, finding sulphur, a quadruple wrath
Unhinges the poor world;--not in that strife,
Wherefrom I take strange lore, and read it deep,
Can I find reason why ye should be thus:
No, no-where can unriddle, though I search,
And pore on Nature's universal scroll
Even to swooning, why ye, Divinities,
The first-born of all shap'd and palpable Gods,
Should cower beneath what, in comparison,
Is untremendous might. Yet ye are here,
O'erwhelm'd, and spurn'd, and batter'd, ye are here!
O Titans, shall I say 'Arise!'--Ye groan:
Shall I say 'Crouch!'--Ye groan. What can I then?
O Heaven wide! O unseen parent dear!
What can I? Tell me, all ye brethren Gods,
How we can war, how engine our great wrath!
O speak your counsel now, for Saturn's ear
Is all a-hunger'd. Thou, Oceanus,
Ponderest high and deep; and in thy face
I see, astonied, that severe content
Which comes of thought and musing: give us help!"

So ended Saturn; and the God of the Sea,
Sophist and sage, from no Athenian grove,
But cogitation in his watery shades,
Arose, with locks not oozy, and began,
In murmurs, which his first-endeavouring tongue
Caught infant-like from the far-foamed sands.
"O ye, whom wrath consumes! who, passion-stung,
Writhe at defeat, and nurse your agonies!
Shut up your senses, stifle up your ears,
My voice is not a bellows unto ire.
Yet listen, ye who will, whilst I bring proof
How ye, perforce, must be content to stoop:
And in the proof much comfort will I give,
If ye will take that comfort in its truth.
We fall by course of Nature's law, not force
Of thunder, or of Jove. Great Saturn, thou
Hast sifted well the atom-universe;
But for this reason, that thou art the King,
And only blind from sheer supremacy,
One avenue was shaded from thine eyes,
Through which I wandered to eternal truth.
And first, as thou wast not the first of powers,
So art thou not the last; it cannot be:
Thou art not the beginning nor the end.
From chaos and parental darkness came
Light, the first fruits of that intestine broil,
That sullen ferment, which for wondrous ends
Was ripening in itself. The ripe hour came,
And with it light, and light, engendering
Upon its own producer, forthwith touch'd
The whole enormous matter into life.
Upon that very hour, our parentage,
The Heavens and the Earth, were manifest:
Then thou first-born, and we the giant-race,
Found ourselves ruling new and beauteous realms.
Now comes the pain of truth, to whom 'tis pain;
O folly! for to bear all naked truths,
And to envisage circumstance, all calm,
That is the top of sovereignty. Mark well!
As Heaven and Earth are fairer, fairer far
Than Chaos and blank Darkness, though once chiefs;
And as we show beyond that Heaven and Earth
In form and shape compact and beautiful,
In will, in action free, companionship,
And thousand other signs of purer life;
So on our heels a fresh perfection treads,
A power more strong in beauty, born of us
And fated to excel us, as we pass
In glory that old Darkness: nor are we
Thereby more conquer'd, than by us the rule
Of shapeless Chaos. Say, doth the dull soil
Quarrel with the proud forests it hath fed,
And feedeth still, more comely than itself?
Can it deny the chiefdom of green groves?
Or shall the tree be envious of the dove
Because it cooeth, and hath snowy wings
To wander wherewithal and find its joys?
We are such forest-trees, and our fair boughs
Have bred forth, not pale solitary doves,
But eagles golden-feather'd, who do tower
Above us in their beauty, and must reign
In right thereof; for 'tis the eternal law
That first in beauty should be first in might:
Yea, by that law, another race may drive
Our conquerors to mourn as we do now.
Have ye beheld the young God of the Seas,
My dispossessor? Have ye seen his face?
Have ye beheld his chariot, foam'd along
By noble winged creatures he hath made?
I saw him on the calmed waters scud,
With such a glow of beauty in his eyes,
That it enforc'd me to bid sad farewell
To all my empire: farewell sad I took,
And hither came, to see how dolorous fate
Had wrought upon ye; and how I might best
Give consolation in this woe extreme.
Receive the truth, and let it be your balm."

Whether through poz'd conviction, or disdain,
They guarded silence, when Oceanus
Left murmuring, what deepest thought can tell?
But so it was, none answer'd for a space,
Save one whom none regarded, Clymene;
And yet she answer'd not, only complain'd,
With hectic lips, and eyes up-looking mild,
Thus wording timidly among the fierce:
"O Father, I am here the simplest voice,
And all my knowledge is that joy is gone,
And this thing woe crept in among our hearts,
There to remain for ever, as I fear:
I would not bode of evil, if I thought
So weak a creature could turn off the help
Which by just right should come of mighty Gods;
Yet let me tell my sorrow, let me tell
Of what I heard, and how it made me weep,
And know that we had parted from all hope.
I stood upon a shore, a pleasant shore,
Where a sweet clime was breathed from a land
Of fragrance, quietness, and trees, and flowers.
Full of calm joy it was, as I of grief;
Too full of joy and soft delicious warmth;
So that I felt a movement in my heart
To chide, and to reproach that solitude
With songs of misery, music of our woes;
And sat me down, and took a mouthed shell
And murmur'd into it, and made melody--
O melody no more! for while I sang,
And with poor skill let pass into the breeze
The dull shell's echo, from a bowery strand
Just opposite, an island of the sea,
There came enchantment with the shifting wind,
That did both drown and keep alive my ears.
I threw my shell away upon the sand,
And a wave fill'd it, as my sense was fill'd
With that new blissful golden melody.
A living death was in each gush of sounds,
Each family of rapturous hurried notes,
That fell, one after one, yet all at once,
Like pearl beads dropping sudden from their string:
And then another, then another strain,
Each like a dove leaving its olive perch,
With music wing'd instead of silent plumes,
To hover round my head, and make me sick
Of joy and grief at once. Grief overcame,
And I was stopping up my frantic ears,
When, past all hindrance of my trembling hands,
A voice came sweeter, sweeter than all tune,
And still it cried, 'Apollo! young Apollo!
The morning-bright Apollo! young Apollo!'
I fled, it follow'd me, and cried 'Apollo!'
O Father, and O Brethren, had ye felt
Those pains of mine; O Saturn, hadst thou felt,
Ye would not call this too indulged tongue
Presumptuous, in thus venturing to be heard."

So far her voice flow'd on, like timorous brook
That, lingering along a pebbled coast,
Doth fear to meet the sea: but sea it met,
And shudder'd; for the overwhelming voice
Of huge Enceladus swallow'd it in wrath:
The ponderous syllables, like sullen waves
In the half-glutted hollows of reef-rocks,
Came booming thus, while still upon his arm
He lean'd; not rising, from supreme contempt.
"Or shall we listen to the over-wise,
Or to the over-foolish, Giant-Gods?
Not thunderbolt on thunderbolt, till all
That rebel Jove's whole armoury were spent,
Not world on world upon these shoulders piled,
Could agonize me more than baby-words
In midst of this dethronement horrible.
Speak! roar! shout! yell! ye sleepy Titans all.
Do ye forget the blows, the buffets vile?
Are ye not smitten by a youngling arm?
Dost thou forget, sham Monarch of the Waves,
Thy scalding in the seas? What, have I rous'd
Your spleens with so few simple words as these?
O joy! for now I see ye are not lost:
O joy! for now I see a thousand eyes
Wide glaring for revenge!"--As this he said,
He lifted up his stature vast, and stood,
Still without intermission speaking thus:
"Now ye are flames, I'll tell you how to burn,
And purge the ether of our enemies;
How to feed fierce the crooked stings of fire,
And singe away the swollen clouds of Jove,
Stifling that puny essence in its tent.
O let him feel the evil he hath done;
For though I scorn Oceanus's lore,
Much pain have I for more than loss of realms:
The days of peace and slumberous calm are fled;
Those days, all innocent of scathing war,
When all the fair Existences of heaven
Came open-eyed to guess what we would speak:--
That was before our brows were taught to frown,
Before our lips knew else but solemn sounds;
That was before we knew the winged thing,
Victory, might be lost, or might be won.
And be ye mindful that Hyperion,
Our brightest brother, still is undisgraced--
Hyperion, lo! his radiance is here!"

All eyes were on Enceladus's face,
And they beheld, while still Hyperion's name
Flew from his lips up to the vaulted rocks,
A pallid gleam across his features stern:
Not savage, for he saw full many a God
Wroth as himself. He look'd upon them all,
And in each face he saw a gleam of light,
But splendider in Saturn's, whose hoar locks
Shone like the bubbling foam about a keel
When the prow sweeps into a midnight cove.
In pale and silver silence they remain'd,
Till suddenly a splendour, like the morn,
Pervaded all the beetling gloomy steeps,
All the sad spaces of oblivion,
And every gulf, and every chasm old,
And every height, and every sullen depth,
Voiceless, or hoarse with loud tormented streams:
And all the everlasting cataracts,
And all the headlong torrents far and near,
Mantled before in darkness and huge shade,
Now saw the light and made it terrible.
It was Hyperion:--a granite peak
His bright feet touch'd, and there he stay'd to view
The misery his brilliance had betray'd
To the most hateful seeing of itself.
Golden his hair of short Numidian curl,
Regal his shape majestic, a vast shade
In midst of his own brightness, like the bulk
Of Memnon's image at the set of sun
To one who travels from the dusking East:
Sighs, too, as mournful as that Memnon's harp
He utter'd, while his hands contemplative
He press'd together, and in silence stood.
Despondence seiz'd again the fallen Gods
At sight of the dejected King of Day,
And many hid their faces from the light:
But fierce Enceladus sent forth his eyes
Among the brotherhood; and, at their glare,
Uprose Iäpetus, and Creüs too,
And Phorcus, sea-born, and together strode
To where he towered on his eminence.
There those four shouted forth old Saturn's name;
Hyperion from the peak loud answered, "Saturn!"
Saturn sat near the Mother of the Gods,
In whose face was no joy, though all the Gods
Gave from their hollow throats the name of "Saturn!"


BOOK III.

Thus in alternate uproar and sad peace,
Amazed were those Titans utterly.
O leave them, Muse! O leave them to their woes;
For thou art weak to sing such tumults dire:
A solitary sorrow best befits
Thy lips, and antheming a lonely grief.
Leave them, O Muse! for thou anon wilt find
Many a fallen old Divinity
Wandering in vain about bewildered shores.
Meantime touch piously the Delphic harp,
And not a wind of heaven but will breathe
In aid soft warble from the Dorian flute;
For lo! 'tis for the Father of all verse.
Flush every thing that hath a vermeil hue,
Let the rose glow intense and warm the air,
And let the clouds of even and of morn
Float in voluptuous fleeces o'er the hills;
Let the red wine within the goblet boil,
Cold as a bubbling well; let faint-lipp'd shells,
On sands, or in great deeps, vermilion turn
Through all their labyrinths; and let the maid
Blush keenly, as with some warm kiss surpris'd.
Chief isle of the embowered Cyclades,
Rejoice, O Delos, with thine olives green,
And poplars, and lawn-shading palms, and beech,
In which the Zephyr breathes the loudest song,
And hazels thick, dark-stemm'd beneath the shade:
Apollo is once more the golden theme!
Where was he, when the Giant of the Sun
Stood bright, amid the sorrow of his peers?
Together had he left his mother fair
And his twin-sister sleeping in their bower,
And in the morning twilight wandered forth
Beside the osiers of a rivulet,
Full ankle-deep in lilies of the vale.
The nightingale had ceas'd, and a few stars
Were lingering in the heavens, while the thrush
Began calm-throated. Throughout all the isle
There was no covert, no retired cave
Unhaunted by the murmurous noise of waves,
Though scarcely heard in many a green recess.
He listen'd, and he wept, and his bright tears
Went trickling down the golden bow he held.
Thus with half-shut suffused eyes he stood,
While from beneath some cumbrous boughs hard by
With solemn step an awful Goddess came,
And there was purport in her looks for him,
Which he with eager guess began to read
Perplex'd, the while melodiously he said:
"How cam'st thou over the unfooted sea?
Or hath that antique mien and robed form
Mov'd in these vales invisible till now?
Sure I have heard those vestments sweeping o'er
The fallen leaves, when I have sat alone
In cool mid-forest. Surely I have traced
The rustle of those ample skirts about
These grassy solitudes, and seen the flowers
Lift up their heads, as still the whisper pass'd.
Goddess! I have beheld those eyes before,
And their eternal calm, and all that face,
Or I have dream'd."--"Yes," said the supreme shape,
"Thou hast dream'd of me; and awaking up
Didst find a lyre all golden by thy side,
Whose strings touch'd by thy fingers, all the vast
Unwearied ear of the whole universe
Listen'd in pain and pleasure at the birth
Of such new tuneful wonder. Is't not strange
That thou shouldst weep, so gifted? Tell me, youth,
What sorrow thou canst feel; for I am sad
When thou dost shed a tear: explain thy griefs
To one who in this lonely isle hath been
The watcher of thy sleep and hours of life,
From the young day when first thy infant hand
Pluck'd witless the weak flowers, till thine arm
Could bend that bow heroic to all times.
Show thy heart's secret to an ancient Power
Who hath forsaken old and sacred thrones
For prophecies of thee, and for the sake
Of loveliness new born."--Apollo then,
With sudden scrutiny and gloomless eyes,
Thus answer'd, while his white melodious throat
Throbb'd with the syllables.--"Mnemosyne!
Thy name is on my tongue, I know not how;
Why should I tell thee what thou so well seest?
Why should I strive to show what from thy lips
Would come no mystery? For me, dark, dark,
And painful vile oblivion seals my eyes:
I strive to search wherefore I am so sad,
Until a melancholy numbs my limbs;
And then upon the grass I sit, and moan,
Like one who once had wings.--O why should I
Feel curs'd and thwarted, when the liegeless air
Yields to my step aspirant? why should I
Spurn the green turf as hateful to my feet?
Goddess benign, point forth some unknown thing:
Are there not other regions than this isle?
What are the stars? There is the sun, the sun!
And the most patient brilliance of the moon!
And stars by thousands! Point me out the way
To any one particular beauteous star,
And I will flit into it with my lyre,
And make its silvery splendour pant with bliss.
I have heard the cloudy thunder: Where is power?
Whose hand, whose essence, what divinity
Makes this alarum in the elements,
While I here idle listen on the shores
In fearless yet in aching ignorance?
O tell me, lonely Goddess, by thy harp,
That waileth every morn and eventide,
Tell me why thus I rave, about these groves!
Mute thou remainest--Mute! yet I can read
A wondrous lesson in thy silent face:
Knowledge enormous makes a God of me.
Names, deeds, gray legends, dire events, rebellions,
Majesties, sovran voices, agonies,
Creations and destroyings, all at once
Pour into the wide hollows of my brain,
And deify me, as if some blithe wine
Or bright elixir peerless I had drunk,
And so become immortal."--Thus the God,
While his enkindled eyes, with level glance
Beneath his white soft temples, stedfast kept
Trembling with light upon Mnemosyne.
Soon wild commotions shook him, and made flush
All the immortal fairness of his limbs;
Most like the struggle at the gate of death;
Or liker still to one who should take leave
Of pale immortal death, and with a pang
As hot as death's is chill, with fierce convulse
Die into life: so young Apollo anguish'd:
His very hair, his golden tresses famed
Kept undulation round his eager neck.
During the pain Mnemosyne upheld
Her arms as one who prophesied.--At length
Apollo shriek'd;--and lo! from all his limbs
Celestial
*

THE END.



PAGE 2. See Introduction to _Hyperion_, p. 245.


INTRODUCTION TO LAMIA.

_Lamia_, like _Endymion_, is written in the heroic couplet, but the
difference in style is very marked. The influence of Dryden's
narrative-poems (his translations from Boccaccio and Chaucer) is clearly
traceable in the metre, style, and construction of the later poem. Like
Dryden, Keats now makes frequent use of the Alexandrine, or 6-foot line,
and of the triplet. He has also restrained the exuberance of his
language and gained force, whilst in imaginative power and felicity of
diction he surpasses anything of which Dryden was capable. The flaws in
his style are mainly due to carelessness in the rimes and some
questionable coining of words. He also occasionally lapses into the
vulgarity and triviality which marred certain of his early poems.

The best he gained from his study of Dryden's _Fables_, a debt perhaps
to Chaucer rather than to Dryden, was a notable advance in constructive
power. In _Lamia_ he shows a very much greater sense of proportion and
power of selection than in his earlier work. There is, as it were, more
light and shade.

Thus we find that whenever the occasion demands it his style rises to
supreme force and beauty. The metamorphosis of the serpent, the entry
of Lamia and Lycius into Corinth, the building by Lamia of the Fairy
Hall, and her final withering under the eye of Apollonius--these are the
most important points in the story, and the passages in which they are
described are also the most striking in the poem.

The allegorical meaning of the story seems to be, that it is fatal to
attempt to separate the sensuous and emotional life from the life of
reason. Philosophy alone is cold and destructive, but the pleasures of
the senses alone are unreal and unsatisfying. The man who attempts such
a divorce between the two parts of his nature will fail miserably as did
Lycius, who, unable permanently to exclude reason, was compelled to face
the death of his illusions, and could not, himself, survive them.

Of the poem Keats himself says, writing to his brother in September,
1819: 'I have been reading over a part of a short poem I have composed
lately, called _Lamia_, and I am certain there is that sort of fire in
it that must take hold of people some way; give them either pleasant or
unpleasant sensation--what they want is a sensation of some sort.' But
to the greatest of Keats's critics, Charles Lamb, the poem appealed
somewhat differently, for he writes, 'More exuberantly rich in imagery
and painting [than _Isabella_] is the story of _Lamia_. It is of as
gorgeous stuff as ever romance was composed of,' and, after enumerating
the most striking pictures in the poem, he adds, '[these] are all that
fairy-land can do for us.' _Lamia_ struck his imagination, but his heart
was given to _Isabella_.


INTRODUCTION TO ISABELLA AND THE EVE OF ST. AGNES

In _Lamia_ and _Hyperion_, as in _Endymion_, we find Keats inspired by
classic story, though the inspiration in each case came to him through
Elizabethan writers. Here, on the other hand, mediaeval legend is his
inspiration; the 'faery broods' have driven 'nymph and satyr from the
prosperous woods'. Akin to the Greeks as he was in spirit, in his
instinctive personification of the lovely manifestations of nature, his
style and method were really more naturally suited to the portrayal of
mediaeval scenes, where he found the richness and warmth of colour in
which his soul delighted.

The story of _Isabella_ he took from Boccaccio, an Italian writer of the
fourteenth century, whose _Decameron_, a collection of one hundred
stories, has been a store-house of plots for English writers. By
Boccaccio the tale is very shortly and simply told, being evidently
interesting to him mainly for its plot. Keats was attracted to it not so
much by the action as by the passion involved, so that his enlargement
of it means little elaboration of incident, but very much more dwelling
on the psychological aspect. That is to say, he does not care so much
what happens, as what the personages of the poem think and feel.

Thus we see that the main incident of the story, the murder of Lorenzo,
is passed over in a line--'Thus was Lorenzo slain and buried in,' the
next line, 'There, in that forest, did his great love cease,' bringing
us back at once from the physical reality of the murder to the thought
of his love, which is to Keats the central fact of the story.

In the delineation of Isabella, her first tender passion of love, her
agony of apprehension giving way to dull despair, her sudden wakening to
a brief period of frenzied action, described in stanzas of incomparable
dramatic force, and the 'peace' which followed when she

Forgot the stars, the moon, the sun,






culminating in the piteous death 'too lone and incomplete'--in the
delineation of all this Keats shows supreme power and insight.

In the conception, too, of the tragic loneliness of Lorenzo's ghost we
feel that nothing could be changed, added, or taken away.

Not quite equally happy are the descriptions of the cruel brothers, and
of Lorenzo as the young lover. There is a tendency to exaggerate both
their inhumanity and his gentleness, for purposes of contrast, which
weakens where it would give strength.

_The Eve of St. Agnes_, founded on a popular mediaeval legend, not being
a tragedy like _Isabella_, cannot be expected to rival it in depth and
intensity; but in every other poetic quality it equals, where it does
not surpass, the former poem.

To be specially noted is the skilful use which Keats here makes of
contrast--between the cruel cold without and the warm love within; the
palsied age of the Bedesman and Angela, and the eager youth of Porphyro
and Madeline; the noise and revel and the hush of Madeline's bedroom,
and, as Mr. Colvin has pointed out, in the moonlight which, chill and
sepulchral when it strikes elsewhere, to Madeline is as a halo of glory,
an angelic light.

A mysterious charm is given to the poem by the way in which Keats endows
inanimate things with a sort of half-conscious life. The knights and
ladies of stone arouse the bedesman's shuddering sympathy when he thinks
of the cold they must be enduring; 'the carven angels' '_star'd_'
'_eager-eyed_' from the roof of the chapel, and the scutcheon in
Madeline's window '_blush'd_ with blood of queens and kings'.

Keats's characteristic method of description--the way in which, by his
masterly choice of significant detail, he gives us the whole feeling of
the situation, is here seen in its perfection. In stanza 1 each line is
a picture and each picture contributes to the whole effect of painful
chill. The silence of the sheep, the old man's breath visible in the
frosty air,--these are things which many people would not notice, but it
is such little things that make the whole scene real to us.

There is another method of description, quite as beautiful in its way,
which Coleridge adopted with magic effect in _Christabel_. This is to
use the power of suggestion, to say very little, but that little of a
kind to awaken the reader's imagination and make him complete the
picture. For example, we are told of Christabel--

Her gentle limbs did she undress


Compare this with stanza xxvi of _The Eve of St. Agnes_.

That Keats was a master of both ways of obtaining a romantic effect is
shown by his _La Belle Dame Sans Merci_, considered by some people his
masterpiece, where the rich detail of _The Eve of St. Agnes_ is replaced
by reserve and suggestion.

As the poem was not included in the volume published in 1820, it is
given here.









The Hippopotamus















The broad-backed hippopotamus




Flesh-and-blood is weak and frail,




The hippo's feeble steps may err




The 'potamus can never reach




At mating time the hippo's voice




The hippopotamus's day




I saw the 'potamus take wing




Blood of the Lamb shall wash him clean




He shall be washed as white as snow,






A kind in glass and a cousin, a spectacle and nothing strange a single
hurt color and an arrangement in a system to pointing. All this and not
ordinary, not unordered in not resembling. The difference is spreading.



Nickel, what is nickel, it is originally rid of a cover.

The change in that is that red weakens an hour. The change has come.
There is no search. But there is, there is that hope and that
interpretation and sometime, surely any is unwelcome, sometime there is
breath and there will be a sinecure and charming very charming is that
clean and cleansing. Certainly glittering is handsome and convincing.

There is no gratitude in mercy and in medicine. There can be breakages
in Japanese. That is no programme. That is no color chosen. It was
chosen yesterday, that showed spitting and perhaps washing and
polishing. It certainly showed no obligation and perhaps if borrowing is
not natural there is some use in giving.




The change of color is likely and a difference a very little difference
is prepared. Sugar is not a vegetable.

Callous is something that hardening leaves behind what will be soft if
there is a genuine interest in there being present as many girls as men.
Does this change. It shows that dirt is clean when there is a volume.

A cushion has that cover. Supposing you do not like to change, supposing
it is very clean that there is no change in appearance, supposing that
there is regularity and a costume is that any the worse than an oyster
and an exchange. Come to season that is there any extreme use in feather
and cotton. Is there not much more joy in a table and more chairs and
very likely roundness and a place to put them.

A circle of fine card board and a chance to see a tassel.

What is the use of a violent kind of delightfulness if there is no
pleasure in not getting tired of it. The question does not come before
there is a quotation. In any kind of place there is a top to covering
and it is a pleasure at any rate there is some venturing in refusing to
believe nonsense. It shows what use there is in a whole piece if one
uses it and it is extreme and very likely the little things could be
dearer but in any case there is a bargain and if there is the best thing
to do is to take it away and wear it and then be reckless be reckless
and resolved on returning gratitude.

Light blue and the same red with purple makes a change. It shows that
there is no mistake. Any pink shows that and very likely it is
reasonable. Very likely there should not be a finer fancy present. Some
increase means a calamity and this is the best preparation for three and
more being together. A little calm is so ordinary and in any case there
is sweetness and some of that.

A seal and matches and a swan and ivy and a suit.

A closet, a closet does not connect under the bed. The band if it is
white and black, the band has a green string. A sight a whole sight and
a little groan grinding makes a trimming such a sweet singing trimming
and a red thing not a round thing but a white thing, a red thing and a
white thing.

The disgrace is not in carelessness nor even in sewing it comes out out
of the way.

What is the sash like. The sash is not like anything mustard it is not
like a same thing that has stripes, it is not even more hurt than that,
it has a little top.


Out of kindness comes redness and out of rudeness comes rapid same
question, out of an eye comes research, out of selection comes painful
cattle. So then the order is that a white way of being round is
something suggesting a pin and is it disappointing, it is not, it is so
rudimentary to be analysed and see a fine substance strangely, it is so
earnest to have a green point not to red but to point again.




More of double.

A place in no new table.

A single image is not splendor. Dirty is yellow. A sign of more in not
mentioned. A piece of coffee is not a detainer. The resemblance to
yellow is dirtier and distincter. The clean mixture is whiter and not
coal color, never more coal color than altogether.

The sight of a reason, the same sight slighter, the sight of a simpler
negative answer, the same sore sounder, the intention to wishing, the
same splendor, the same furniture.

The time to show a message is when too late and later there is no
hanging in a blight.

A not torn rose-wood color. If it is not dangerous then a pleasure and
more than any other if it is cheap is not cheaper. The amusing side is
that the sooner there are no fewer the more certain is the necessity
dwindled. Supposing that the case contained rose-wood and a color.
Supposing that there was no reason for a distress and more likely for a
number, supposing that there was no astonishment, is it not necessary to
mingle astonishment.

The settling of stationing cleaning is one way not to shatter scatter
and scattering. The one way to use custom is to use soap and silk for
cleaning. The one way to see cotton is to have a design concentrating
the illusion and the illustration. The perfect way is to accustom the
thing to have a lining and the shape of a ribbon and to be solid, quite
solid in standing and to use heaviness in morning. It is light enough in
that. It has that shape nicely. Very nicely may not be exaggerating.
Very strongly may be sincerely fainting. May be strangely flattering.
May not be strange in everything. May not be strange to.


DIRT AND NOT COPPER.

Dirt and not copper makes a color darker. It makes the shape so heavy
and makes no melody harder.

It makes mercy and relaxation and even a strength to spread a table
fuller. There are more places not empty. They see cover.


NOTHING ELEGANT.

A charm a single charm is doubtful. If the red is rose and there is a
gate surrounding it, if inside is let in and there places change then
certainly something is upright. It is earnest.


MILDRED'S UMBRELLA.

A cause and no curve, a cause and loud enough, a cause and extra a loud
clash and an extra wagon, a sign of extra, a sac a small sac and an
established color and cunning, a slender grey and no ribbon, this means
a loss a great loss a restitution.


A METHOD OF A CLOAK.

A single climb to a line, a straight exchange to a cane, a desperate
adventure and courage and a clock, all this which is a system, which has
feeling, which has resignation and success, all makes an attractive
black silver.


A RED STAMP.

If lilies are lily white if they exhaust noise and distance and even
dust, if they dusty will dirt a surface that has no extreme grace, if
they do this and it is not necessary it is not at all necessary if they
do this they need a catalogue.


A BOX.

A large box is handily made of what is necessary to replace any
substance. Suppose an example is necessary, the plainer it is made the
more reason there is for some outward recognition that there is a
result.

A box is made sometimes and them to see to see to it neatly and to have
the holes stopped up makes it necessary to use paper.

A custom which is necessary when a box is used and taken is that a large
part of the time there are three which have different connections. The
one is on the table. The two are on the table. The three are on the
table. The one, one is the same length as is shown by the cover being
longer. The other is different there is more cover that shows it. The
other is different and that makes the corners have the same shade the
eight are in singular arrangement to make four necessary.

Lax, to have corners, to be lighter than some weight, to indicate a
wedding journey, to last brown and not curious, to be wealthy,
cigarettes are established by length and by doubling.

Left open, to be left pounded, to be left closed, to be circulating in
summer and winter, and sick color that is grey that is not dusty and red
shows, to be sure cigarettes do measure an empty length sooner than a
choice in color.

Winged, to be winged means that white is yellow and pieces pieces that
are brown are dust color if dust is washed off, then it is choice that
is to say it is fitting cigarettes sooner than paper.

An increase why is an increase idle, why is silver cloister, why is the
spark brighter, if it is brighter is there any result, hardly more than
ever.


A PLATE.

An occasion for a plate, an occasional resource is in buying and how
soon does washing enable a selection of the same thing neater. If the
party is small a clever song is in order.

Plates and a dinner set of colored china. Pack together a string and
enough with it to protect the centre, cause a considerable haste and
gather more as it is cooling, collect more trembling and not any even
trembling, cause a whole thing to be a church.

A sad size a size that is not sad is blue as every bit of blue is
precocious. A kind of green a game in green and nothing flat nothing
quite flat and more round, nothing a particular color strangely, nothing
breaking the losing of no little piece.

A splendid address a really splendid address is not shown by giving a
flower freely, it is not shown by a mark or by wetting.

Cut cut in white, cut in white so lately. Cut more than any other and
show it. Show it in the stem and in starting and in evening coming
complication.

A lamp is not the only sign of glass. The lamp and the cake are not the
only sign of stone. The lamp and the cake and the cover are not the only
necessity altogether.

A plan a hearty plan, a compressed disease and no coffee, not even a
card or a change to incline each way, a plan that has that excess and
that break is the one that shows filling.


A SELTZER BOTTLE.

Any neglect of many particles to a cracking, any neglect of this makes
around it what is lead in color and certainly discolor in silver. The
use of this is manifold. Supposing a certain time selected is assured,
suppose it is even necessary, suppose no other extract is permitted and
no more handling is needed, suppose the rest of the message is mixed
with a very long slender needle and even if it could be any black
border, supposing all this altogether made a dress and suppose it was
actual, suppose the mean way to state it was occasional, if you suppose
this in August and even more melodiously, if you suppose this even in
the necessary incident of there certainly being no middle in summer and
winter, suppose this and an elegant settlement a very elegant settlement
is more than of consequence, it is not final and sufficient and
substituted. This which was so kindly a present was constant.


A LONG DRESS.

What is the current that makes machinery, that makes it crackle, what is
the current that presents a long line and a necessary waist. What is
this current.

What is the wind, what is it.

Where is the serene length, it is there and a dark place is not a dark
place, only a white and red are black, only a yellow and green are blue,
a pink is scarlet, a bow is every color. A line distinguishes it. A line
just distinguishes it.


A RED HAT.

A dark grey, a very dark grey, a quite dark grey is monstrous
ordinarily, it is so monstrous because there is no red in it. If red is
in everything it is not necessary. Is that not an argument for any use
of it and even so is there any place that is better, is there any place
that has so much stretched out.


A BLUE COAT.

A blue coat is guided guided away, guided and guided away, that is the
particular color that is used for that length and not any width not even
more than a shadow.


A PIANO.

If the speed is open, if the color is careless, if the selection of a
strong scent is not awkward, if the button holder is held by all the
waving color and there is no color, not any color. If there is no dirt
in a pin and there can be none scarcely, if there is not then the place
is the same as up standing.

This is no dark custom and it even is not acted in any such a way that a
restraint is not spread. That is spread, it shuts and it lifts and
awkwardly not awkwardly the centre is in standing.


A CHAIR.

A widow in a wise veil and more garments shows that shadows are even. It
addresses no more, it shadows the stage and learning. A regular
arrangement, the severest and the most preserved is that which has the
arrangement not more than always authorised.

A suitable establishment, well housed, practical, patient and staring, a
suitable bedding, very suitable and not more particularly than
complaining, anything suitable is so necessary.

A fact is that when the direction is just like that, no more, longer,
sudden and at the same time not any sofa, the main action is that
without a blaming there is no custody.

Practice measurement, practice the sign that means that really means a
necessary betrayal, in showing that there is wearing.

Hope, what is a spectacle, a spectacle is the resemblance between the
circular side place and nothing else, nothing else.

To choose it is ended, it is actual and more than that it has it
certainly has the same treat, and a seat all that is practiced and more
easily much more easily ordinarily.

Pick a barn, a whole barn, and bend more slender accents than have ever
been necessary, shine in the darkness necessarily. Actually not aching,
actually not aching, a stubborn bloom is so artificial and even more
than that, it is a spectacle, it is a binding accident, it is animosity
and accentuation.

If the chance to dirty diminishing is necessary, if it is why is there
no complexion, why is there no rubbing, why is there no special
protection.


A FRIGHTFUL RELEASE.

A bag which was left and not only taken but turned away was not found.
The place was shown to be very like the last time. A piece was not
exchanged, not a bit of it, a piece was left over. The rest was
mismanaged.


A PURSE.

A purse was not green, it was not straw color, it was hardly seen and it
had a use a long use and the chain, the chain was never missing, it was
not misplaced, it showed that it was open, that is all that it showed.


A MOUNTED UMBRELLA.

What was the use of not leaving it there where it would hang what was
the use if there was no chance of ever seeing it come there and show
that it was handsome and right in the way it showed it. The lesson is to
learn that it does show it, that it shows it and that nothing, that
there is nothing, that there is no more to do about it and just so much
more is there plenty of reason for making an exchange.


A CLOTH.

Enough cloth is plenty and more, more is almost enough for that and
besides if there is no more spreading is there plenty of room for it.
Any occasion shows the best way.


MORE.

An elegant use of foliage and grace and a little piece of white cloth
and oil.

Wondering so winningly in several kinds of oceans is the reason that
makes red so regular and enthusiastic. The reason that there is more
snips are the same shining very colored rid of no round color.


A NEW CUP AND SAUCER.

Enthusiastically hurting a clouded yellow bud and saucer,
enthusiastically so is the bite in the ribbon.


OBJECTS.

Within, within the cut and slender joint alone, with sudden equals and
no more than three, two in the centre make two one side.

If the elbow is long and it is filled so then the best example is all
together.

The kind of show is made by squeezing.


EYE GLASSES.

A color in shaving, a saloon is well placed in the centre of an alley.


CUTLET.

A blind agitation is manly and uttermost.


CARELESS WATER.

No cup is broken in more places and mended, that is to say a plate is
broken and mending does do that it shows that culture is Japanese. It
shows the whole element of angels and orders. It does more to choosing
and it does more to that ministering counting. It does, it does change
in more water.

Supposing a single piece is a hair supposing more of them are orderly,
does that show that strength, does that show that joint, does that show
that balloon famously. Does it.


A PAPER.

A courteous occasion makes a paper show no such occasion and this makes
readiness and eyesight and likeness and a stool.


A DRAWING.

The meaning of this is entirely and best to say the mark, best to say it
best to show sudden places, best to make bitter, best to make the length
tall and nothing broader, anything between the half.


WATER RAINING.

Water astonishing and difficult altogether makes a meadow and a stroke.


COLD CLIMATE.

A season in yellow sold extra strings makes lying places.


MALACHITE.

The sudden spoon is the same in no size. The sudden spoon is the wound
in the decision.


AN UMBRELLA.

Coloring high means that the strange reason is in front not more in
front behind. Not more in front in peace of the dot.


A PETTICOAT.

A light white, a disgrace, an ink spot, a rosy charm.


A WAIST.

A star glide, a single frantic sullenness, a single financial grass
greediness.

Object that is in wood. Hold the pine, hold the dark, hold in the rush,
make the bottom.

A piece of crystal. A change, in a change that is remarkable there is no
reason to say that there was a time.

A woolen object gilded. A country climb is the best disgrace, a couple
of practices any of them in order is so left.


A TIME TO EAT.

A pleasant simple habitual and tyrannical and authorised and educated
and resumed and articulate separation. This is not tardy.


A LITTLE BIT OF A TUMBLER.

A shining indication of yellow consists in there having been more of the
same color than could have been expected when all four were bought. This
was the hope which made the six and seven have no use for any more
places and this necessarily spread into nothing. Spread into nothing.


A FIRE.

What was the use of a whole time to send and not send if there was to be
the kind of thing that made that come in. A letter was nicely sent.


A HANDKERCHIEF.

A winning of all the blessings, a sample not a sample because there is
no worry.


RED ROSES.

A cool red rose and a pink cut pink, a collapse and a sold hole, a
little less hot.


IN BETWEEN.

In between a place and candy is a narrow foot-path that shows more
mounting than anything, so much really that a calling meaning a bolster
measured a whole thing with that. A virgin a whole virgin is judged made
and so between curves and outlines and real seasons and more out glasses
and a perfectly unprecedented arrangement between old ladies and mild
colds there is no satin wood shining.


COLORED HATS.

Colored hats are necessary to show that curls are worn by an addition of
blank spaces, this makes the difference between single lines and broad
stomachs, the least thing is lightening, the least thing means a little
flower and a big delay a big delay that makes more nurses than little
women really little women. So clean is a light that nearly all of it
shows pearls and little ways. A large hat is tall and me and all custard
whole.


A FEATHER.

A feather is trimmed, it is trimmed by the light and the bug and the
post, it is trimmed by little leaning and by all sorts of mounted
reserves and loud volumes. It is surely cohesive.


A BROWN.

A brown which is not liquid not more so is relaxed and yet there is a
change, a news is pressing.


A LITTLE CALLED PAULINE.

A little called anything shows shudders.

Come and say what prints all day. A whole few watermelon. There is no
pope.

No cut in pennies and little dressing and choose wide soles and little
spats really little spices.

A little lace makes boils. This is not true.

Gracious of gracious and a stamp a blue green white bow a blue green
lean, lean on the top.

If it is absurd then it is leadish and nearly set in where there is a
tight head.

A peaceful life to arise her, noon and moon and moon. A letter a cold
sleeve a blanket a shaving house and nearly the best and regular window.

Nearer in fairy sea, nearer and farther, show white has lime in sight,
show a stitch of ten. Count, count more so that thicker and thicker is
leaning.

I hope she has her cow. Bidding a wedding, widening received treading,
little leading mention nothing.

Cough out cough out in the leather and really feather it is not for.

Please could, please could, jam it not plus more sit in when.


A SOUND.

Elephant beaten with candy and little pops and chews all bolts and
reckless reckless rats, this is this.


A TABLE.

A table means does it not my dear it means a whole steadiness. Is it
likely that a change.

A table means more than a glass even a looking glass is tall. A table
means necessary places and a revision a revision of a little thing it
means it does mean that there has been a stand, a stand where it did
shake.


SHOES.

To be a wall with a damper a stream of pounding way and nearly enough
choice makes a steady midnight. It is pus.

A shallow hole rose on red, a shallow hole in and in this makes ale
less. It shows shine.


A DOG.

A little monkey goes like a donkey that means to say that means to say
that more sighs last goes. Leave with it. A little monkey goes like a
donkey.


A WHITE HUNTER.

A white hunter is nearly crazy.


A LEAVE.

In the middle of a tiny spot and nearly bare there is a nice thing to
say that wrist is leading. Wrist is leading.


SUPPOSE AN EYES.

Suppose it is within a gate which open is open at the hour of closing
summer that is to say it is so.

All the seats are needing blackening. A white dress is in sign. A
soldier a real soldier has a worn lace a worn lace of different sizes
that is to say if he can read, if he can read he is a size to show
shutting up twenty-four.

Go red go red, laugh white.

Suppose a collapse in rubbed purr, in rubbed purr get.

Little sales ladies little sales ladies little saddles of mutton.

Little sales of leather and such beautiful beautiful, beautiful
beautiful.


A SHAWL.

A shawl is a hat and hurt and a red balloon and an under coat and a
sizer a sizer of talks.

A shawl is a wedding, a piece of wax a little build. A shawl.

Pick a ticket, pick it in strange steps and with hollows. There is
hollow hollow belt, a belt is a shawl.

A plate that has a little bobble, all of them, any so.

Please a round it is ticket.

It was a mistake to state that a laugh and a lip and a laid climb and a
depot and a cultivator and little choosing is a point it.


BOOK.

Book was there, it was there. Book was there. Stop it, stop it, it was a
cleaner, a wet cleaner and it was not where it was wet, it was not high,
it was directly placed back, not back again, back it was returned, it
was needless, it put a bank, a bank when, a bank care.

Suppose a man a realistic expression of resolute reliability suggests
pleasing itself white all white and no head does that mean soap. It does
not so. It means kind wavers and little chance to beside beside rest. A
plain.

Suppose ear rings, that is one way to breed, breed that. Oh chance to
say, oh nice old pole. Next best and nearest a pillar. Chest not
valuable, be papered.

Cover up cover up the two with a little piece of string and hope rose
and green, green.

Please a plate, put a match to the seam and really then really then,
really then it is a remark that joins many many lead games. It is a
sister and sister and a flower and a flower and a dog and a colored sky
a sky colored grey and nearly that nearly that let.


PEELED PENCIL, CHOKE.

Rub her coke.


IT WAS BLACK, BLACK TOOK.

Black ink best wheel bale brown.

Excellent not a hull house, not a pea soup, no bill no care, no precise
no past pearl pearl goat.


THIS IS THE DRESS, AIDER.

Aider, why aider why whow, whow stop touch, aider whow, aider stop the
muncher, muncher munchers.

A jack in kill her, a jack in, makes a meadowed king, makes a to let.




FOOD


ROASTBEEF; MUTTON; BREAKFAST; SUGAR; CRANBERRIES; MILK; EGGS; APPLE;
TAILS; LUNCH; CUPS; RHUBARB; SINGLE; FISH; CAKE; CUSTARD; POTATOES;
ASPARAGUS; BUTTER; END OF SUMMER; SAUSAGES; CELERY; VEAL; VEGETABLE;
COOKING; CHICKEN; PASTRY; CREAM; CUCUMBER; DINNER; DINING; EATING;
SALAD; SAUCE; SALMON; ORANGE; COCOA; AND CLEAR SOUP AND ORANGES AND
OATMEAL; SALAD DRESSING AND AN ARTICHOKE; A CENTRE IN A TABLE.


ROASTBEEF.

In the inside there is sleeping, in the outside there is reddening, in
the morning there is meaning, in the evening there is feeling. In the
evening there is feeling. In feeling anything is resting, in feeling
anything is mounting, in feeling there is resignation, in feeling there
is recognition, in feeling there is recurrence and entirely mistaken
there is pinching. All the standards have steamers and all the curtains
have bed linen and all the yellow has discrimination and all the circle
has circling. This makes sand.

Very well. Certainly the length is thinner and the rest, the round rest
has a longer summer. To shine, why not shine, to shine, to station, to
enlarge, to hurry the measure all this means nothing if there is
singing, if there is singing then there is the resumption.

The change the dirt, not to change dirt means that there is no beefsteak
and not to have that is no obstruction, it is so easy to exchange
meaning, it is so easy to see the difference. The difference is that a
plain resource is not entangled with thickness and it does not mean that
thickness shows such cutting, it does mean that a meadow is useful and a
cow absurd. It does not mean that there are tears, it does not mean that
exudation is cumbersome, it means no more than a memory, a choice and a
reëstablishment, it means more than any escape from a surrounding extra.
All the time that there is use there is use and any time there is a
surface there is a surface, and every time there is an exception there
is an exception and every time there is a division there is a dividing.
Any time there is a surface there is a surface and every time there is a
suggestion there is a suggestion and every time there is silence there
is silence and every time that is languid there is that there then and
not oftener, not always, not particular, tender and changing and
external and central and surrounded and singular and simple and the same
and the surface and the circle and the shine and the succor and the
white and the same and the better and the red and the same and the
centre and the yellow and the tender and the better, and altogether.

Considering the circumstances there is no occasion for a reduction,
considering that there is no pealing there is no occasion for an
obligation, considering that there is no outrage there is no necessity
for any reparation, considering that there is no particle sodden there
is no occasion for deliberation. Considering everything and which way
the turn is tending, considering everything why is there no restraint,
considering everything what makes the place settle and the plate
distinguish some specialties. The whole thing is not understood and this
is not strange considering that there is no education, this is not
strange because having that certainly does show the difference in
cutting, it shows that when there is turning there is no distress.

In kind, in a control, in a period, in the alteration of pigeons, in
kind cuts and thick and thin spaces, in kind ham and different colors,
the length of leaning a strong thing outside not to make a sound but to
suggest a crust, the principal taste is when there is a whole chance to
be reasonable, this does not mean that there is overtaking, this means
nothing precious, this means clearly that the chance to exercise is a
social success. So then the sound is not obtrusive. Suppose it is
obtrusive suppose it is. What is certainly the desertion is not a
reduced description, a description is not a birthday.

Lovely snipe and tender turn, excellent vapor and slender butter, all
the splinter and the trunk, all the poisonous darkening drunk, all the
joy in weak success, all the joyful tenderness, all the section and the
tea, all the stouter symmetry.

Around the size that is small, inside the stern that is the middle,
besides the remains that are praying, inside the between that is
turning, all the region is measuring and melting is exaggerating.

Rectangular ribbon does not mean that there is no eruption it means that
if there is no place to hold there is no place to spread. Kindness is
not earnest, it is not assiduous it is not revered.

Room to comb chickens and feathers and ripe purple, room to curve single
plates and large sets and second silver, room to send everything away,
room to save heat and distemper, room to search a light that is simpler,
all room has no shadow.

There is no use there is no use at all in smell, in taste, in teeth, in
toast, in anything, there is no use at all and the respect is mutual.

Why should that which is uneven, that which is resumed, that which is
tolerable why should all this resemble a smell, a thing is there, it
whistles, it is not narrower, why is there no obligation to stay away
and yet courage, courage is everywhere and the best remains to stay.

If there could be that which is contained in that which is felt there
would be a chair where there are chairs and there would be no more
denial about a clatter. A clatter is not a smell. All this is good.

The Saturday evening which is Sunday is every week day. What choice is
there when there is a difference. A regulation is not active.
Thirstiness is not equal division.

Anyway, to be older and ageder is not a surfeit nor a suction, it is not
dated and careful, it is not dirty. Any little thing is clean, rubbing
is black. Why should ancient lambs be goats and young colts and never
beef, why should they, they should because there is so much difference
in age.

A sound, a whole sound is not separation, a whole sound is in an order.

Suppose there is a pigeon, suppose there is.

Looseness, why is there a shadow in a kitchen, there is a shadow in a
kitchen because every little thing is bigger.

The time when there are four choices and there are four choices in a
difference, the time when there are four choices there is a kind and
there is a kind. There is a kind. There is a kind. Supposing there is a
bone, there is a bone. Supposing there are bones. There are bones. When
there are bones there is no supposing there are bones. There are bones
and there is that consuming. The kindly way to feel separating is to
have a space between. This shows a likeness.

Hope in gates, hope in spoons, hope in doors, hope in tables, no hope in
daintiness and determination. Hope in dates.

Tin is not a can and a stove is hardly. Tin is not necessary and neither
is a stretcher. Tin is never narrow and thick.

Color is in coal. Coal is outlasting roasting and a spoonful, a whole
spoon that is full is not spilling. Coal any coal is copper.

Claiming nothing, not claiming anything, not a claim in everything,
collecting claiming, all this makes a harmony, it even makes a
succession.

Sincerely gracious one morning, sincerely graciously trembling, sincere
in gracious eloping, all this makes a furnace and a blanket. All this
shows quantity.

Like an eye, not so much more, not any searching, no compliments.

Please be the beef, please beef, pleasure is not wailing. Please beef,
please be carved clear, please be a case of consideration.

Search a neglect. A sale, any greatness is a stall and there is no
memory, there is no clear collection.

A satin sight, what is a trick, no trick is mountainous and the color,
all the rush is in the blood.

Bargaining for a little, bargain for a touch, a liberty, an
estrangement, a characteristic turkey.

Please spice, please no name, place a whole weight, sink into a standard
rising, raise a circle, choose a right around, make the resonance
accounted and gather green any collar.

To bury a slender chicken, to raise an old feather, to surround a
garland and to bake a pole splinter, to suggest a repose and to settle
simply, to surrender one another, to succeed saving simpler, to satisfy
a singularity and not to be blinder, to sugar nothing darker and to read
redder, to have the color better, to sort out dinner, to remain
together, to surprise no sinner, to curve nothing sweeter, to continue
thinner, to increase in resting recreation to design string not dimmer.

Cloudiness what is cloudiness, is it a lining, is it a roll, is it
melting.

The sooner there is jerking, the sooner freshness is tender, the sooner
the round it is not round the sooner it is withdrawn in cutting, the
sooner the measure means service, the sooner there is chinking, the
sooner there is sadder than salad, the sooner there is none do her, the
sooner there is no choice, the sooner there is a gloom freer, the same
sooner and more sooner, this is no error in hurry and in pressure and in
opposition to consideration.

A recital, what is a recital, it is an organ and use does not strengthen
valor, it soothes medicine.

A transfer, a large transfer, a little transfer, some transfer, clouds
and tracks do transfer, a transfer is not neglected.

Pride, when is there perfect pretence, there is no more than yesterday
and ordinary.

A sentence of a vagueness that is violence is authority and a mission
and stumbling and also certainly also a prison. Calmness, calm is beside
the plate and in way in. There is no turn in terror. There is no volume
in sound.

There is coagulation in cold and there is none in prudence. Something
is preserved and the evening is long and the colder spring has sudden
shadows in a sun. All the stain is tender and lilacs really lilacs are
disturbed. Why is the perfect reëstablishment practiced and prized, why
is it composed. The result the pure result is juice and size and baking
and exhibition and nonchalance and sacrifice and volume and a section in
division and the surrounding recognition and horticulture and no murmur.
This is a result. There is no superposition and circumstance, there is
hardness and a reason and the rest and remainder. There is no delight
and no mathematics.


MUTTON.

A letter which can wither, a learning which can suffer and an outrage
which is simultaneous is principal.

Student, students are merciful and recognised they chew something.

Hate rests that is solid and sparse and all in a shape and largely very
largely. Interleaved and successive and a sample of smell all this makes
a certainty a shade.

Light curls very light curls have no more curliness than soup. This is
not a subject.

Change a single stream of denting and change it hurriedly, what does it
express, it expresses nausea. Like a very strange likeness and pink,
like that and not more like that than the same resemblance and not more
like that than no middle space in cutting.

An eye glass, what is an eye glass, it is water. A splendid specimen,
what is it when it is little and tender so that there are parts. A
centre can place and four are no more and two and two are not middle.

Melting and not minding, safety and powder, a particular recollection
and a sincere solitude all this makes a shunning so thorough and so
unrepeated and surely if there is anything left it is a bone. It is not
solitary.

Any space is not quiet it is so likely to be shiny. Darkness very dark
darkness is sectional. There is a way to see in onion and surely very
surely rhubarb and a tomato, surely very surely there is that seeding. A
little thing in is a little thing.

Mud and water were not present and not any more of either. Silk and
stockings were not present and not any more of either. A receptacle and
a symbol and no monster were present and no more. This made a piece
show and was it a kindness, it can be asked was it a kindness to have it
warmer, was it a kindness and does gliding mean more. Does it.

Does it dirty a ceiling. It does not. Is it dainty, it is if prices are
sweet. Is it lamentable, it is not if there is no undertaker. Is it
curious, it is not when there is youth. All this makes a line, it even
makes makes no more. All this makes cherries. The reason that there is a
suggestion in vanity is due to this that there is a burst of mixed
music.

A temptation any temptation is an exclamation if there are misdeeds and
little bones. It is not astonishing that bones mingle as they vary not
at all and in any case why is a bone outstanding, it is so because the
circumstance that does not make a cake and character is so easily
churned and cherished.

Mouse and mountain and a quiver, a quaint statue and pain in an exterior
and silence more silence louder shows salmon a mischief intender. A
cake, a real salve made of mutton and liquor, a specially retained
rinsing and an established cork and blazing, this which resignation
influences and restrains, restrains more altogether. A sign is the
specimen spoken.

A meal in mutton, mutton, why is lamb cheaper, it is cheaper because so
little is more. Lecture, lecture and repeat instruction.


BREAKFAST.

A change, a final change includes potatoes. This is no authority for the
abuse of cheese. What language can instruct any fellow.

A shining breakfast, a breakfast shining, no dispute, no practice,
nothing, nothing at all.

A sudden slice changes the whole plate, it does so suddenly.

An imitation, more imitation, imitation succeed imitations.

Anything that is decent, anything that is present, a calm and a cook and
more singularly still a shelter, all these show the need of clamor. What
is the custom, the custom is in the centre.

What is a loving tongue and pepper and more fish than there is when
tears many tears are necessary. The tongue and the salmon, there is not
salmon when brown is a color, there is salmon when there is no meaning
to an early morning being pleasanter. There is no salmon, there are no
tea-cups, there are the same kind of mushes as are used as stomachers
by the eating hopes that makes eggs delicious. Drink is likely to stir a
certain respect for an egg cup and more water melon than was ever eaten
yesterday. Beer is neglected and cocoanut is famous. Coffee all coffee
and a sample of soup all soup these are the choice of a baker. A white
cup means a wedding. A wet cup means a vacation. A strong cup means an
especial regulation. A single cup means a capital arrangement between
the drawer and the place that is open.

Price a price is not in language, it is not in custom, it is not in
praise.

A colored loss, why is there no leisure. If the persecution is so
outrageous that nothing is solemn is there any occasion for persuasion.

A grey turn to a top and bottom, a silent pocketful of much heating, all
the pliable succession of surrendering makes an ingenious joy.

A breeze in a jar and even then silence, a special anticipation in a
rack, a gurgle a whole gurgle and more cheese than almost anything, is
this an astonishment, does this incline more than the original division
between a tray and a talking arrangement and even then a calling into
another room gently with some chicken in any way.

A bent way that is a way to declare that the best is all together, a
bent way shows no result, it shows a slight restraint, it shows a
necessity for retraction.

Suspect a single buttered flower, suspect it certainly, suspect it and
then glide, does that not alter a counting.

A hurt mended stick, a hurt mended cup, a hurt mended article of
exceptional relaxation and annoyance, a hurt mended, hurt and mended is
so necessary that no mistake is intended.

What is more likely than a roast, nothing really and yet it is never
disappointed singularly.

A steady cake, any steady cake is perfect and not plain, any steady cake
has a mounting reason and more than that it has singular crusts. A
season of more is a season that is instead. A season of many is not more
a season than most.

Take no remedy lightly, take no urging intently, take no separation
leniently, beware of no lake and no larder.

Burden the cracked wet soaking sack heavily, burden it so that it is an
institution in fright and in climate and in the best plan that there can
be.

An ordinary color, a color is that strange mixture which makes, which
does make which does not make a ripe juice, which does not make a mat.

A work which is a winding a real winding of the cloaking of a relaxing
rescue. This which is so cool is not dusting, it is not dirtying in
smelling, it could use white water, it could use more extraordinarily
and in no solitude altogether. This which is so not winsome and not
widened and really not so dipped as dainty and really dainty, very
dainty, ordinarily, dainty, a dainty, not in that dainty and dainty. If
the time is determined, if it is determined and there is reunion there
is reunion with that then outline, then there is in that a piercing
shutter, all of a piercing shouter, all of a quite weather, all of a
withered exterior, all of that in most violent likely.

An excuse is not dreariness, a single plate is not butter, a single
weight is not excitement, a solitary crumbling is not only martial.

A mixed protection, very mixed with the same actual intentional
unstrangeness and riding, a single action caused necessarily is not more
a sign than a minister.

Seat a knife near a cage and very near a decision and more nearly a
timely working cat and scissors. Do this temporarily and make no more
mistake in standing. Spread it all and arrange the white place, does
this show in the house, does it not show in the green that is not
necessary for that color, does it not even show in the explanation and
singularly not at all stationary.


SUGAR.

A violent luck and a whole sample and even then quiet.

Water is squeezing, water is almost squeezing on lard. Water, water is a
mountain and it is selected and it is so practical that there is no use
in money. A mind under is exact and so it is necessary to have a mouth
and eye glasses.

A question of sudden rises and more time than awfulness is so easy and
shady. There is precisely that noise.

A peck a small piece not privately overseen, not at all not a slice, not
at all crestfallen and open, not at all mounting and chaining and evenly
surpassing, all the bidding comes to tea.

A separation is not tightly in worsted and sauce, it is so kept well and
sectionally.

Put it in the stew, put it to shame. A little slight shadow and a solid
fine furnace.

The teasing is tender and trying and thoughtful.

The line which sets sprinkling to be a remedy is beside the best cold.

A puzzle, a monster puzzle, a heavy choking, a neglected Tuesday.

Wet crossing and a likeness, any likeness, a likeness has blisters, it
has that and teeth, it has the staggering blindly and a little green,
any little green is ordinary.

One, two and one, two, nine, second and five and that.

A blaze, a search in between, a cow, only any wet place, only this tune.

Cut a gas jet uglier and then pierce pierce in between the next and
negligence. Choose the rate to pay and pet pet very much. A collection
of all around, a signal poison, a lack of languor and more hurts at
ease.

A white bird, a colored mine, a mixed orange, a dog.

Cuddling comes in continuing a change.

A piece of separate outstanding rushing is so blind with open delicacy.

A canoe is orderly. A period is solemn. A cow is accepted.

A nice old chain is widening, it is absent, it is laid by.


CRANBERRIES.

Could there not be a sudden date, could there not be in the present
settlement of old age pensions, could there not be by a witness, could
there be.

Count the chain, cut the grass, silence the noon and murder flies. See
the basting undip the chart, see the way the kinds are best seen from
the rest, from that and untidy.

Cut the whole space into twenty-four spaces and then and then is there a
yellow color, there is but it is smelled, it is then put where it is and
nothing stolen.

A remarkable degree of red means that, a remarkable exchange is made.

Climbing altogether in when there is a solid chance of soiling no more
than a dirty thing, coloring all of it in steadying is jelly.

Just as it is suffering, just as it is succeeded, just as it is moist so
is there no countering.


MILK.

A white egg and a colored pan and a cabbage showing settlement, a
constant increase.

A cold in a nose, a single cold nose makes an excuse. Two are more
necessary.

All the goods are stolen, all the blisters are in the cup.

Cooking, cooking is the recognition between sudden and nearly sudden
very little and all large holes.

A real pint, one that is open and closed and in the middle is so bad.

Tender colds, seen eye holders, all work, the best of change, the
meaning, the dark red, all this and bitten, really bitten.

Guessing again and golfing again and the best men, the very best men.


MILK.

Climb up in sight climb in the whole utter needles and a guess a whole
guess is hanging. Hanging hanging.


EGGS.

Kind height, kind in the right stomach with a little sudden mill.

Cunning shawl, cunning shawl to be steady.

In white in white handkerchiefs with little dots in a white belt all
shadows are singular they are singular and procured and relieved.

No that is not the cows shame and a precocious sound, it is a bite.

Cut up alone the paved way which is harm. Harm is old boat and a likely
dash.


APPLE.

Apple plum, carpet steak, seed clam, colored wine, calm seen, cold
cream, best shake, potato, potato and no no gold work with pet, a green
seen is called bake and change sweet is bready, a little piece a little
piece please.

A little piece please. Cane again to the presupposed and ready
eucalyptus tree, count out sherry and ripe plates and little corners of
a kind of ham. This is use.


TAILS.

Cold pails, cold with joy no joy.

A tiny seat that means meadows and a lapse of cuddles with cheese and
nearly bats, all this went messed. The post placed a loud loose sprain.
A rest is no better. It is better yet. All the time.


LUNCH.

Luck in loose plaster makes holy gauge and nearly that, nearly more
states, more states come in town light kite, blight not white.

A little lunch is a break in skate a little lunch so slimy, a west end
of a board line is that which shows a little beneath so that necessity
is a silk under wear. That is best wet. It is so natural, and why is
there flake, there is flake to explain exhaust.

A real cold hen is nervous is nervous with a towel with a spool with
real beads. It is mostly an extra sole nearly all that shaved, shaved
with an old mountain, more than that bees more than that dinner and a
bunch of likes that is to say the hearts of onions aim less.

Cold coffee with a corn a corn yellow and green mass is a gem.


CUPS.

A single example of excellence is in the meat. A bent stick is surging
and might all might is mental. A grand clothes is searching out a candle
not that wheatly not that by more than an owl and a path. A ham is proud
of cocoanut.

A cup is neglected by being all in size. It is a handle and meadows and
sugar any sugar.

A cup is neglected by being full of size. It shows no shade, in come
little wood cuts and blessing and nearly not that not with a wild bought
in, not at all so polite, not nearly so behind.

Cups crane in. They need a pet oyster, they need it so hoary and nearly
choice. The best slam is utter. Nearly be freeze.

Why is a cup a stir and a behave. Why is it so seen.

A cup is readily shaded, it has in between no sense that is to say
music, memory, musical memory.

Peanuts blame, a half sand is holey and nearly.


RHUBARB.

Rhubarb is susan not susan not seat in bunch toys not wild and laughable
not in little places not in neglect and vegetable not in fold coal age
not please.


SINGLE FISH.

Single fish single fish single fish egg-plant single fish sight.

A sweet win and not less noisy than saddle and more ploughing and nearly
well painted by little things so.

Please shade it a play. It is necessary and beside the large sort is
puff.

Every way oakly, please prune it near. It is so found.

It is not the same.


CAKE.

Cake cast in went to be and needles wine needles are such.

This is today. A can experiment is that which makes a town, makes a town
dirty, it is little please. We came back. Two bore, bore what, a mussed
ash, ash when there is tin. This meant cake. It was a sign.

Another time there was extra a hat pin sought long and this dark made a
display. The result was yellow. A caution, not a caution to be.

It is no use to cause a foolish number. A blanket stretch a cloud, a
shame, all that bakery can tease, all that is beginning and yesterday
yesterday we had it met. It means some change. No some day.

A little leaf upon a scene an ocean any where there, a bland and likely
in the stream a recollection green land. Why white.


CUSTARD.

Custard is this. It has aches, aches when. Not to be. Not to be
narrowly. This makes a whole little hill.

It is better than a little thing that has mellow real mellow. It is
better than lakes whole lakes, it is better than seeding.


POTATOES.

Real potatoes cut in between.


POTATOES.

In the preparation of cheese, in the preparation of crackers, in the
preparation of butter, in it.


ROAST POTATOES.

Roast potatoes for.


ASPARAGUS.

Asparagus in a lean in a lean to hot. This makes it art and it is wet
wet weather wet weather wet.


BUTTER.

Boom in boom in, butter. Leave a grain and show it, show it. I spy.

It is a need it is a need that a flower a state flower. It is a need
that a state rubber. It is a need that a state rubber is sweet and sight
and a swelled stretch. It is a need. It is a need that state rubber.

Wood a supply. Clean little keep a strange, estrange on it.

Make a little white, no and not with pit, pit on in within.


END OF SUMMER.

Little eyelets that have hammer and a check with stripes between a
lounge, in wit, in a rested development.


SAUSAGES.

Sausages in between a glass.

There is read butter. A loaf of it is managed. Wake a question. Eat an
instant, answer.

A reason for bed is this, that a decline, any decline is poison, poison
is a toe a toe extractor, this means a solemn change. Hanging.

No evil is wide, any extra in leaf is so strange and singular a red
breast.


CELERY.

Celery tastes tastes where in curled lashes and little bits and mostly
in remains.

A green acre is so selfish and so pure and so enlivened.


VEAL.

Very well very well, washing is old, washing is washing.

Cold soup, cold soup clear and particular and a principal a principal
question to put into.


VEGETABLE.

What is cut. What is cut by it. What is cut by it in.

It was a cress a crescent a cross and an unequal scream, it was
upslanting, it was radiant and reasonable with little ins and red.

News. News capable of glees, cut in shoes, belike under pump of wide
chalk, all this combing.


WAY LAY VEGETABLE.

Leaves in grass and mow potatoes, have a skip, hurry you up flutter.

Suppose it is ex a cake suppose it is new mercy and leave charlotte and
nervous bed rows. Suppose it is meal. Suppose it is sam.


COOKING.

Alas, alas the pull alas the bell alas the coach in china, alas the
little put in leaf alas the wedding butter meat, alas the receptacle,
alas the back shape of mussle, mussle and soda.


CHICKEN.

Pheasant and chicken, chicken is a peculiar third.


CHICKEN.

Alas a dirty word, alas a dirty third alas a dirty third, alas a dirty
bird.


CHICKEN.

Alas a doubt in case of more go to say what it is cress. What is it.
Mean. Potato. Loaves.


CHICKEN.

Stick stick call then, stick stick sticking, sticking with a chicken.
Sticking in a extra succession, sticking in.


CHAIN-BOATS.

Chain-boats are merry, are merry blew, blew west, carpet.


PASTRY.

Cutting shade, cool spades and little last beds, make violet, violet
when.


CREAM.

In a plank, in a play sole, in a heated red left tree there is shut in
specs with salt be where. This makes an eddy. Necessary.


CREAM.

Cream cut. Any where crumb. Left hop chambers.


CUCUMBER.

Not a razor less, not a razor, ridiculous pudding, red and relet put in,
rest in a slender go in selecting, rest in, rest in in white widening.


DINNER.

Not a little fit, not a little fit sun sat in shed more mentally.

Let us why, let us why weight, let us why winter chess, let us why way.

Only a moon to soup her, only that in the sell never never be the cocups
nice be, shatter it they lay.

Egg ear nuts, look a bout. Shoulder. Let it strange, sold in bell next
herds.

It was a time when in the acres in late there was a wheel that shot a
burst of land and needless are niggers and a sample sample set of old
eaten butterflies with spoons, all of it to be are fled and measure make
it, make it, yet all the one in that we see where shall not it set with
a left and more so, yes there add when the longer not it shall the best
in the way when all be with when shall not for there with see and chest
how for another excellent and excellent and easy easy excellent and easy
express e c, all to be nice all to be no so. All to be no so no so. All
to be not a white old chat churner. Not to be any example of an edible
apple in.


DINING.

Dining is west.


EATING.

Eat ting, eating a grand old man said roof and never never re soluble
burst, not a near ring not a bewildered neck, not really any such bay.

Is it so a noise to be is it a least remain to rest, is it a so old say
to be, is it a leading are been. Is it so, is it so, is it so, is it so
is it so is it so.

Eel us eel us with no no pea no pea cool, no pea cool cooler, no pea
cooler with a land a land cost in, with a land cost in stretches.

Eating he heat eating he heat it eating, he heat it heat eating. He heat
eating.

A little piece of pay of pay owls owls such as pie, bolsters.

Will leap beat, willie well all. The rest rest oxen occasion occasion to
be so purred, so purred how.

It was a ham it was a square come well it was a square remain, a square
remain not it a bundle, not it a bundle so is a grip, a grip to shed bay
leave bay leave draught, bay leave draw cider in low, cider in low and
george. George is a mass.


EATING.

It was a shame it was a shame to stare to stare and double and relieve
relieve be cut up show as by the elevation of it and out out more in the
steady where the come and on and the all the shed and that.

It was a garden and belows belows straight. It was a pea, a pea pour it
in its not a succession, not it a simple, not it a so election, election
with.


SALAD.

It is a winning cake.


SAUCE.

What is bay labored what is all be section, what is no much. Sauce sam
in.


SALMON.

It was a peculiar bin a bin fond in beside.


ORANGE.

Why is a feel oyster an egg stir. Why is it orange centre.

A show at tick and loosen loosen it so to speak sat.

It was an extra leaker with a see spoon, it was an extra licker with a
see spoon.


ORANGE.

A type oh oh new new not no not knealer knealer of old show beefsteak,
neither neither.


ORANGES.

Build is all right.


ORANGE IN.

Go lack go lack use to her.

Cocoa and clear soup and oranges and oat-meal.

Whist bottom whist close, whist clothes, woodling.

Cocoa and clear soup and oranges and oat-meal.

Pain soup, suppose it is question, suppose it is butter, real is, real
is only, only excreate, only excreate a no since.

A no, a no since, a no since when, a no since when since, a no since
when since a no since when since, a no since, a no since when since, a
no since, a no, a no since a no since, a no since, a no since.


SALAD DRESSING AND AN ARTICHOKE.

Please pale hot, please cover rose, please acre in the red stranger,
please butter all the beef-steak with regular feel faces.


SALAD DRESSING AND AN ARTICHOKE.

It was please it was please carriage cup in an ice-cream, in an
ice-cream it was too bended bended with scissors and all this time. A
whole is inside a part, a part does go away, a hole is red leaf. No
choice was where there was and a second and a second.


A CENTRE IN A TABLE.

It was a way a day, this made some sum. Suppose a cod liver a cod liver
is an oil, suppose a cod liver oil is tunny, suppose a cod liver oil
tunny is pressed suppose a cod liver oil tunny pressed is china and
secret with a bestow a bestow reed, a reed to be a reed to be, in a reed
to be.

Next to me next to a folder, next to a folder some waiter, next to a
foldersome waiter and re letter and read her. Read her with her for
less.




ROOMS


Act so that there is no use in a centre. A wide action is not a width. A
preparation is given to the ones preparing. They do not eat who mention
silver and sweet. There was an occupation.

A whole centre and a border make hanging a way of dressing. This which
is not why there is a voice is the remains of an offering. There was no
rental.

So the tune which is there has a little piece to play, and the exercise
is all there is of a fast. The tender and true that makes no width to
hew is the time that there is question to adopt.

To begin the placing there is no wagon. There is no change lighter. It
was done. And then the spreading, that was not accomplishing that needed
standing and yet the time was not so difficult as they were not all in
place. They had no change. They were not respected. They were that, they
did it so much in the matter and this showed that that settlement was
not condensed. It was spread there. Any change was in the ends of the
centre. A heap was heavy. There was no change.

Burnt and behind and lifting a temporary stone and lifting more than a
drawer.

The instance of there being more is an instance of more. The shadow is
not shining in the way there is a black line. The truth has come. There
is a disturbance. Trusting to a baker's boy meant that there would be
very much exchanging and anyway what is the use of a covering to a door.
There is a use, they are double.

If the centre has the place then there is distribution. That is natural.
There is a contradiction and naturally returning there comes to be both
sides and the centre. That can be seen from the description.

The author of all that is in there behind the door and that is entering
in the morning. Explaining darkening and expecting relating is all of a
piece. The stove is bigger. It was of a shape that made no audience
bigger if the opening is assumed why should there not be kneeling. Any
force which is bestowed on a floor shows rubbing. This is so nice and
sweet and yet there comes the change, there comes the time to press
more air. This does not mean the same as disappearance.

A little lingering lion and a Chinese chair, all the handsome cheese
which is stone, all of it and a choice, a choice of a blotter. If it is
difficult to do it one way there is no place of similar trouble. None.
The whole arrangement is established. The end of which is that there is
a suggestion, a suggestion that there can be a different whiteness to a
wall. This was thought.

A page to a corner means that the shame is no greater when the table is
longer. A glass is of any height, it is higher, it is simpler and if it
were placed there would not be any doubt.

Something that is an erection is that which stands and feeds and
silences a tin which is swelling. This makes no diversion that is to say
what can please exaltation, that which is cooking.

A shine is that which when covered changes permission. An enclosure
blends with the same that is to say there is blending. A blend is that
which holds no mice and this is not because of a floor it is because of
nothing, it is not in a vision.

A fact is that when the place was replaced all was left that was stored
and all was retained that would not satisfy more than another. The
question is this, is it possible to suggest more to replace that thing.
This question and this perfect denial does make the time change all the
time.

The sister was not a mister. Was this a surprise. It was. The conclusion
came when there was no arrangement. All the time that there was a
question there was a decision. Replacing a casual acquaintance with an
ordinary daughter does not make a son.

It happened in a way that the time was perfect and there was a growth of
a whole dividing time so that where formerly there was no mistake there
was no mistake now. For instance before when there was a separation
there was waiting, now when there is separation there is the division
between intending and departing. This made no more mixture than there
would be if there had been no change.

A little sign of an entrance is the one that made it alike. If it were
smaller it was not alike and it was so much smaller that a table was
bigger. A table was much bigger, very much bigger. Changing that made
nothing bigger, it did not make anything bigger littler, it did not
hinder wood from not being used as leather. And this was so charming.
Harmony is so essential. Is there pleasure when there is a passage,
there is when every room is open. Every room is open when there are not
four, there were there and surely there were four, there were two
together. There is no resemblance.

A single speed, the reception of table linen, all the wonder of six
little spoons, there is no exercise.

The time came when there was a birthday. Every day was no excitement and
a birthday was added, it was added on Monday, this made the memory
clear, this which was a speech showed the chair in the middle where
there was copper.

Alike and a snail, this means Chinamen, it does there is no doubt that
to be right is more than perfect there is no doubt and glass is
confusing it confuses the substance which was of a color. Then came the
time for discrimination, it came then and it was never mentioned it was
so triumphant, it showed the whole head that had a hole and should have
a hole it showed the resemblance between silver.

Startling a starving husband is not disagreeable. The reason that
nothing is hidden is that there is no suggestion of silence. No song is
sad. A lesson is of consequence.

Blind and weak and organised and worried and betrothed and resumed and
also asked to a fast and always asked to consider and never startled and
not at all bloated, this which is no rarer than frequently is not so
astonishing when hair brushing is added. There is quiet, there certainly
is.

No eye-glasses are rotten, no window is useless and yet if air will not
come in there is a speech ready, there always is and there is no
dimness, not a bit of it.

All along the tendency to deplore the absence of more has not been
authorised. It comes to mean that with burning there is that pleasant
state of stupefication. Then there is a way of earning a living. Who is
a man.

A silence is not indicated by any motion, less is indicated by a motion,
more is not indicated it is enthralled. So sullen and so low, so much
resignation, so much refusal and so much place for a lower and an upper,
so much and yet more silence, why is not sleeping a feat why is it not
and when is there some discharge when. There never is.

If comparing a piece that is a size that is recognised as not a size but
a piece, comparing a piece with what is not recognised but what is used
as it is held by holding, comparing these two comes to be repeated.
Suppose they are put together, suppose that there is an interruption,
supposing that beginning again they are not changed as to position,
suppose all this and suppose that any five two of whom are not
separating suppose that the five are not consumed. Is there an exchange,
is there a resemblance to the sky which is admitted to be there and the
stars which can be seen. Is there. That was a question. There was no
certainty. Fitting a failing meant that any two were indifferent and yet
they were all connecting that, they were all connecting that
consideration. This did not determine rejoining a letter. This did not
make letters smaller. It did.

The stamp that is not only torn but also fitting is not any symbol. It
suggests nothing. A sack that has no opening suggests more and the loss
is not commensurate. The season gliding and the torn hangings receiving
mending all this shows an example, it shows the force of sacrifice and
likeness and disaster and a reason.

The time when there is not the question is only seen when there is a
shower. Any little thing is water.

There was a whole collection made. A damp cloth, an oyster, a single
mirror, a manikin, a student, a silent star, a single spark, a little
movement and the bed is made. This shows the disorder, it does, it shows
more likeness than anything else, it shows the single mind that directs
an apple. All the coats have a different shape, that does not mean that
they differ in color, it means a union between use and exercise and a
horse.

A plain hill, one is not that which is not white and red and green, a
plain hill makes no sunshine, it shows that without a disturber. So the
shape is there and the color and the outline and the miserable centre,
it is not very likely that there is a centre, a hill is a hill and no
hill is contained in a pink tender descender.

A can containing a curtain is a solid sentimental usage. The trouble in
both eyes does not come from the same symmetrical carpet, it comes from
there being no more disturbance than in little paper. This does show the
teeth, it shows color.

A measure is that which put up so that it shows the length has a steel
construction. Tidiness is not delicacy, it does not destroy the whole
piece, certainly not it has been measured and nothing has been cut off
and even if that has been lost there is a name, no name is signed and
left over, not any space is fitted so that moving about is plentiful.
Why is there so much resignation in a package, why is there rain, all
the same the chance has come, there is no bell to ring.

A package and a filter and even a funnel, all this together makes a
scene and supposing the question arises is hair curly, is it dark and
dusty, supposing that question arises, is brushing necessary, is it,
the whole special suddenness commences then, there is no delusion.

A cape is a cover, a cape is not a cover in summer, a cape is a cover
and the regulation is that there is no such weather. A cape is not
always a cover, a cape is not a cover when there is another, there is
always something in that thing in establishing a disposition to put
wetting where it will not do more harm. There is always that disposition
and in a way there is some use in not mentioning changing and in
establishing the temperature, there is some use in it as establishing
all that lives dimmer freer and there is no dinner in the middle of
anything. There is no such thing.

Why is a pale white not paler than blue, why is a connection made by a
stove, why is the example which is mentioned not shown to be the same,
why is there no adjustment between the place and the separate attention.
Why is there a choice in gamboling. Why is there no necessary dull
stable, why is there a single piece of any color, why is there that
sensible silence. Why is there the resistance in a mixture, why is there
no poster, why is there that in the window, why is there no suggester,
why is there no window, why is there no oyster closer. Why is there a
circular diminisher, why is there a bather, why is there no scraper, why
is there a dinner, why is there a bell ringer, why is there a duster,
why is there a section of a similar resemblance, why is there that
scissor.

South, south which is a wind is not rain, does silence choke speech or
does it not.

Lying in a conundrum, lying so makes the springs restless, lying so is a
reduction, not lying so is arrangeable.

Releasing the oldest auction that is the pleasing some still renewing.

Giving it away, not giving it away, is there any difference. Giving it
away. Not giving it away.

Almost very likely there is no seduction, almost very likely there is no
stream, certainly very likely the height is penetrated, certainly
certainly the target is cleaned. Come to sit, come to refuse, come to
surround, come slowly and age is not lessening. The time which showed
that was when there was no eclipse. All the time that resenting was
removal all that time there was breadth. No breath is shadowed, no
breath is paintaking and yet certainly what could be the use of paper,
paper shows no disorder, it shows no desertion.

Why is there a difference between one window and another, why is there
a difference, because the curtain is shorter. There is no distaste in
beefsteak or in plums or in gallons of milk water, there is no defiance
in original piling up over a roof, there is no daylight in the evening,
there is none there empty.

A tribune, a tribune does not mean paper, it means nothing more than
cake, it means more sugar, it shows the state of lengthening any nose.
The last spice is that which shows the whole evening spent in that
sleep, it shows so that walking is an alleviation, and yet this
astonishes everybody the distance is so sprightly. In all the time there
are three days, those are not passed uselessly. Any little thing is a
change that is if nothing is wasted in that cellar. All the rest of the
chairs are established.

A success, a success is alright when there are there rooms and no
vacancies, a success is alright when there is a package, success is
alright anyway and any curtain is wholesale. A curtain diminishes and an
ample space shows varnish.

One taste one tack, one taste one bottle, one taste one fish, one taste
one barometer. This shows no distinguishing sign when there is a store.

Any smile is stern and any coat is a sample. Is there any use in
changing more doors than there are committees. This question is so often
asked that squares show that they are blotters. It is so very agreeable
to hear a voice and to see all the signs of that expression.

Cadences, real cadences, real cadences and a quiet color. Careful and
curved, cake and sober, all accounts and mixture, a guess at anything is
righteous, should there be a call there would be a voice.

A line in life, a single line and a stairway, a rigid cook, no cook and
no equator, all the same there is higher than that another evasion. Did
that mean shame, it meant memory. Looking into a place that was hanging
and was visible looking into this place and seeing a chair did that mean
relief, it did, it certainly did not cause constipation and yet there is
a melody that has white for a tune when there is straw color. This shows
no face.

Star-light, what is star-light, star-light is a little light that is not
always mentioned with the sun, it is mentioned with the moon and the
sun, it is mixed up with the rest of the time.

Why is the name changed The name is changed because in the little space
there is a tree, in some space there are no trees, in every space there
is a hint of more, all this causes the decision.

Why is there education, there is education because the two tables which
are folding are not tied together with a ribbon, string is used and
string being used there is a necessity for another one and another one
not being used to hearing shows no ordinary use of any evening and yet
there is no disgrace in looking, none at all. This came to separate when
there was simple selection of an entire preoccupation.

A curtain, a curtain which is fastened discloses mourning, this does not
mean sparrows or elocution or even a whole preparation, it means that
there are ears and very often much more altogether.

Climate, climate is not southern, a little glass, a bright winter, a
strange supper an elastic tumbler, all this shows that the back is
furnished and red which is red is a dark color. An example of this is
fifteen years and a separation of regret.

China is not down when there are plates, lights are not ponderous and
incalculable.

Currents, currents are not in the air and on the floor and in the door
and behind it first. Currents do not show it plainer. This which is
mastered has so thin a space to build it all that there is plenty of
room and yet is it quarreling, it is not and the insistence is marked. A
change is in a current and there is no habitable exercise.

A religion, almost a religion, any religion, a quintal in religion, a
relying and a surface and a service in indecision and a creature and a
question and a syllable in answer and more counting and no quarrel and a
single scientific statement and no darkness and no question and an
earned administration and a single set of sisters and an outline and no
blisters and the section seeing yellow and the centre having spelling
and no solitude and no quaintness and yet solid quite so solid and the
single surface centred and the question in the placard and the
singularity, is there a singularity, and the singularity, why is there a
question and the singularity why is the surface outrageous, why is it
beautiful why is it not when there is no doubt, why is anything vacant,
why is not disturbing a centre no virtue, why is it when it is and why
is it when it is and there is no doubt, there is no doubt that the
singularity shows.

A climate, a single climate, all the time there is a single climate, any
time there is a doubt, any time there is music that is to question more
and more and there is no politeness, there is hardly any ordeal and
certainly there is no tablecloth.

This is a sound and obligingness more obligingness leads to a harmony
in hesitation.

A lake a single lake which is a pond and a little water any water which
is an ant and no burning, not any burning, all this is sudden.

A canister that is the remains of furniture and a looking-glass and a
bed-room and a larger size, all the stand is shouted and what is ancient
is practical. Should the resemblance be so that any little cover is
copied, should it be so that yards are measured, should it be so and
there be a sin, should it be so then certainly a room is big enough when
it is so empty and the corners are gathered together.

The change is mercenary that settles whitening the coloring and serving
dishes where there is metal and making yellow any yellow every color in
a shade which is expressed in a tray. This is a monster and awkward
quite awkward and the little design which is flowered which is not
strange and yet has visible writing, this is not shown all the time but
at once, after that it rests where it is and where it is in place. No
change is not needed. That does show design.

Excellent, more excellence is borrowing and slanting very slanting is
light and secret and a recitation and emigration. Certainly shoals are
shallow and nonsense more nonsense is sullen. Very little cake is water,
very little cake has that escape.

Sugar any sugar, anger every anger, lover sermon lover, centre no
distractor, all order is in a measure.

Left over to be a lamp light, left over in victory, left over in saving,
all this and negligence and bent wood and more even much more is not so
exact as a pen and a turtle and even, certainly, and even a piece of the
same experience as more.

To consider a lecture, to consider it well is so anxious and so much a
charity and really supposing there is grain and if a stubble every
stubble is urgent, will there not be a chance of legality. The sound is
sickened and the price is purchased and golden what is golden, a
clergyman, a single tax, a currency and an inner chamber.

Checking an emigration, checking it by smiling and certainly by the same
satisfactory stretch of hands that have more use for it than nothing,
and mildly not mildly a correction, not mildly even a circumstance and a
sweetness and a serenity. Powder, that has no color, if it did have
would it be white.

A whole soldier any whole soldier has no more detail than any case of
measles.

A bridge a very small bridge in a location and thunder, any thunder,
this is the capture of reversible sizing and more indeed more can be
cautious. This which makes monotony careless makes it likely that there
is an exchange in principle and more than that, change in organization.

This cloud does change with the movements of the moon and the narrow the
quite narrow suggestion of the building. It does and then when it is
settled and no sounds differ then comes the moment when cheerfulness is
so assured that there is an occasion.

A plain lap, any plain lap shows that sign, it shows that there is not
so much extension as there would be if there were more choice in
everything. And why complain of more, why complain of very much more.
Why complain at all when it is all arranged that as there is no more
opportunity and no more appeal and not even any more clinching that
certainly now some time has come.

A window has another spelling, it has "f" all together, it lacks no more
then and this is rain, this may even be something else, at any rate
there is no dedication in splendor. There is a turn of the stranger.

Catholic to be turned is to venture on youth and a section of debate, it
even means that no class where each one over fifty is regular is so
stationary that there are invitations.

A curving example makes righteous finger-nails. This is the only object
in secretion and speech.

To being the same four are no more than were taller. The rest had a big
chair and a surveyance a cold accumulation of nausea, and even more than
that, they had a disappointment.

Nothing aiming is a flower, if flowers are abundant then they are lilac,
if they are not they are white in the centre.

Dance a clean dream and an extravagant turn up, secure the steady rights
and translate more than translate the authority, show the choice and
make no more mistakes than yesterday.

This means clearness, it means a regular notion of exercise, it means
more than that, it means liking counting, it means more than that, it
does not mean exchanging a line.

Why is there more craving than there is in a mountain. This does not
seem strange to one, it does not seem strange to an echo and more surely
is in there not being a habit. Why is there so much useless suffering.
Why is there.

Any wet weather means an open window, what is attaching eating, anything
that is violent and cooking and shows weather is the same in the end and
why is there more use in something than in all that.

The cases are made and books, back books are used to secure tears and
church. They are even used to exchange black slippers. They can not be
mended with wax. They show no need of any such occasion.

A willow and no window, a wide place stranger, a wideness makes an
active center.

The sight of no pussy cat is so different that a tobacco zone is white
and cream.

A lilac, all a lilac and no mention of butter, not even bread and
butter, no butter and no occasion, not even a silent resemblance, not
more care than just enough haughty.

A safe weight is that which when it pleases is hanging. A safer weight
is one more naughty in a spectacle. The best game is that which is shiny
and scratching. Please a pease and a cracker and a wretched use of
summer.

Surprise, the only surprise has no occasion. It is an ingredient and the
section the whole section is one season.

A pecking which is petting and no worse than in the same morning is not
the only way to be continuous often.

A light in the moon the only light is on Sunday. What was the sensible
decision. The sensible decision was that notwithstanding many
declarations and more music, not even notwithstanding the choice and a
torch and a collection, notwithstanding the celebrating hat and a
vacation and even more noise than cutting, notwithstanding Europe and
Asia and being overbearing, not even notwithstanding an elephant and a
strict occasion, not even withstanding more cultivation and some
seasoning, not even with drowning and with the ocean being encircling,
not even with more likeness and any cloud, not even with terrific
sacrifice of pedestrianism and a special resolution, not even more
likely to be pleasing. The care with which the rain is wrong and the
green is wrong and the white is wrong, the care with which there is a
chair and plenty of breathing. The care with which there is incredible
justice and likeness, all this makes a magnificent asparagus, and also a
fountain.




SELECTED POEMS




THE PASTURE


I'm going out to clean the pasture spring;
I'll only stop to rake the leaves away
(And wait to watch the water clear, I may):
I shan't be gone long.—-You come too.

I'm going out to fetch the little calf
That's standing by the mother. It's so young,
It totters when she licks it with her tongue.
I shan't be gone long.—-You come too.




THE COW IN APPLE-TIME


Something inspires the only cow of late
To make no more of a wall than an open gate,
And think no more of wall-builders than fools.
Her face is flecked with pomace and she drools
A cider syrup. Having tasted fruit,
She scorns a pasture withering to the root.
She runs from tree to tree where lie and sweeten
The windfalls spiked with stubble and worm-eaten.
She leaves them bitten when she has to fly.
She bellows on a knoll against the sky.
Her udder shrivels and the milk goes dry.



THE RUNAWAY


Once when the snow of the year was beginning to
fall,
We stopped by a mountain pasture to say "Whose
colt?"
A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall,
The other curled at his breast. He dipped his head
And snorted at us. And then he had to bolt.
We heard the miniature thunder where he fled,
And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and
grey,
Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes.
"I think the little fellow's afraid of the snow.
He isn't winter-broken. It isn't play
With the little fellow at all. He's running away.
I doubt if even his mother could tell him, 'Sakes,
It's only weather.' He'd think she didn't know!
Where is his mother? He can't be out alone."
And now he comes again with a clatter of stone
And mounts the wall again with whited eyes
And all his tail that isn't hair up straight.
He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies.
"Whoever it is that leaves him out so late,
When other creatures have gone to stall and bin,
Ought to be told to come and take him in."




II



AN OLD MAN'S WINTER NIGHT


All out of doors looked darkly in at him
Through the thin frost, almost in separate stars,
That gathers on the pane in empty rooms.
What kept his eyes from giving back the gaze
Was the lamp tilted near them in his hand.
What kept him from remembering what it was
That brought him to that creaking room was age.
He stood with barrels round him—-at a loss.
And having scared the cellar under him
In clomping there, he scared it once again
In clomping off;—-and scared the outer night,
Which has its sounds, familiar, like the roar
Of trees and crack of branches, common things,
But nothing so like beating on a box.
A light he was to no one but himself
Where now he sat, concerned with he knew what,
A quiet light, and then not even that.
He consigned to the moon, such as she was,
So late-arising, to the broken moon
As better than the sun in any case
For such a charge, his snow upon the roof,
His icicles along the wall to keep;
And slept. The log that shifted with a jolt
Once in the stove, disturbed him and he shifted,
And eased his heavy breathing, but still slept.
One aged man—-one man—-can't keep a house,
A farm, a countryside, or if he can,
It's thus he does it of a winter night.




HOME BURIAL


He saw her from the bottom of the stairs
Before she saw him. She was starting down,
Looking back over her shoulder at some fear.
She took a doubtful step and then undid it
To raise herself and look again. He spoke
Advancing toward her: "What is it you see
From up there always—-for I want to know."
She turned and sank upon her skirts at that,
And her face changed from terrified to dull.
He said to gain time: "What is it you see?"
Mounting until she cowered under him.
"I will find out now—you must tell me, dear."
She, in her place, refused him any help
With the least stiffening of her neck and silence.
She let him look, sure that he wouldn't see,
Blind creature; and a while he didn't see.
But at last he murmured, "Oh," and again, "Oh."

"What is it—what?" she said.
"Just that I see."

"You don't," she challenged. "Tell me what it is."

"The wonder is I didn't see at once.
I never noticed it from here before.
I must be wonted to it—-that's the reason.
The little graveyard where my people are!
So small the window frames the whole of it.
Not so much larger than a bedroom, is it?
There are three stones of slate and one of marble,
Broad-shouldered little slabs there in the sunlight
On the sidehill. We haven't to mind _those._
But I understand: it is not the stones,
But the child's mound----"

Don't, don't, don't, don't," she cried.

She withdrew shrinking from beneath his arm
That rested on the banister, and slid downstairs;
And turned on him with such a daunting look,
He said twice over before he knew himself:
"Can't a man speak of his own child he's lost?"

"Not you! Oh, where's my hat? Oh, I don't
need it!
I must get out of here. I must get air.
I don't know rightly whether any man can."

"Amy! Don't go to someone else this time.
Listen to me. I won't come down the stairs."
He sat and fixed his chin between his fists.
"There's something I should like to ask you, dear."

"You don't know how to ask it."

"Help me, then."

Her fingers moved the latch for all reply.

"My words are nearly always an offence.
I don't know how to speak of anything
So as to please you. But I might be taught
I should suppose. I can't say I see how.
A man must partly give up being a man
With women-folk. We could have some
arrangement
By which I'd bind myself to keep hands off
Anything special you're a-mind to name.
Though I don't like such things 'twixt those that
love.
Two that don't love can't live together without
them.
But two that do can't live together with them."
She moved the latch a little. "Don't—-don't go.
Don't carry it to someone else this time.
Tell me about it if it's something human.
Let me into your grief. I'm not so much
Unlike other folks as your standing there
Apart would make me out. Give me my chance.
I do think, though, you overdo it a little.
What was it brought you up to think it the thing
To take your mother-loss of a first child
So inconsolably—in the face of love.
You'd think his memory might be satisfied----"

"There you go sneering now!"

"I'm not, I'm not!
You make me angry. I'll come down to you.
God, what a woman! And it's come to this,
A man can't speak of his own child that's dead."
"You can't because you don't know how.
If you had any feelings, you that dug
With your own hand—-how could you?—-his little
grave;
I saw you from that very window there,
Making the gravel leap and leap in air,
Leap up, like that, like that, and land so lightly
And roll back down the mound beside the hole.
I thought, Who is that man? I didn't know you.
And I crept down the stairs and up the stairs
To look again, and still your spade kept lifting.
Then you came in. I heard your rumbling voice
Out in the kitchen, and I don't know why,
But I went near to see with my own eyes.
You could sit there with the stains on your shoes
Of the fresh earth from your own baby's grave
And talk about your everyday concerns.
You had stood the spade up against the wall
Outside there in the entry, for I saw it."

"I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed.
I'm cursed. God, if I don't believe I'm cursed."
"I can repeat the very words you were saying.

'Three foggy mornings and one rainy day
Will rot the best birch fence a man can build.'
Think of it, talk like that at such a time!
What had how long it takes a birch to rot
To do with what was in the darkened parlour?
You _couldn't_ care! The nearest friends can go
With anyone to death, comes so far short
They might as well not try to go at all.
No, from the time when one is sick to death,
One is alone, and he dies more alone.
Friends make pretence of following to the grave,
But before one is in it, their minds are turned
And making the best of their way back to life
And living people, and things they understand.
But the world's evil. I won't have grief so
If I can change it. Oh, I won't, I won't!"

"There, you have said it all and you feel better.
You won't go now. You're crying. Close the door.
The heart's gone out of it: why keep it up?
Amy! There's someone coming down the road!"

"_You_-—oh, you think the talk is all. I must go—-
Somewhere out of this house. How can I make
you----"

"If—-you—-do!" She was opening the door wider.
"Where do you mean to go? First tell me that.
I'll follow and bring you back by force. I _will!_—-"




THE DEATH OF THE HIRED MAN


Mary sat musing on the lamp-flame at the table
Waiting for Warren. When she heard his step,
She ran on tip-toe down the darkened passage
To meet him in the doorway with the news
And put him on his guard. "Silas is back."

She pushed him outward with her through the door
And shut it after her. "Be kind," she said.
She took the market things from Warren's arms
And set them on the porch, then drew him down
To sit beside her on the wooden steps.

"When was I ever anything but kind to him?
But I'll not have the fellow back," he said.
"I told him so last haying, didn't I?
'If he left then,' I said, 'that ended it.'
What good is he? Who else will harbour him
At his age for the little he can do?
What help he is there's no depending on.
Off he goes always when I need him most.

'He thinks he ought to earn a little pay,
Enough at least to buy tobacco with,
So he won't have to beg and be beholden.'
'All right,' I say, 'I can't afford to pay
Any fixed wages, though I wish I could.'
'Someone else can.' 'Then someone else will have
to.'
I shouldn't mind his bettering himself
If that was what it was. You can be certain,
When he begins like that, there's someone at him
Trying to coax him off with pocket-money,—-
In haying time, when any help is scarce.
In winter he comes back to us. I'm done."

"Sh! not so loud: he'll hear you," Mary said.

"I want him to: he'll have to soon or late."

"He's worn out. He's asleep beside the stove.
When I came up from Rowe's I found him here,
Huddled against the barn-door fast asleep,
A miserable sight, and frightening, too—-
You needn't smile—-I didn't recognise him—-
I wasn't looking for him—-and he's changed.
Wait till you see."

"Where did you say he'd been?"

"He didn't say. I dragged him to the house,
And gave him tea and tried to make him smoke.
I tried to make him talk about his travels.
Nothing would do: he just kept nodding off."

"What did he say? Did he say anything?"

"But little."

"Anything? Mary, confess
He said he'd come to ditch the meadow for me."

"Warren!"

"But did he? I just want to know."

"Of course he did. What would you have him say?
Surely you wouldn't grudge the poor old man
Some humble way to save his self-respect.
He added, if you really care to know,
He meant to clear the upper pasture, too.
That sounds like something you have heard before?
Warren, I wish you could have heard the way
He jumbled everything. I stopped to look
Two or three times—-he made me feel so queer—-
To see if he was talking in his sleep.
He ran on Harold Wilson—-you remember—-
The boy you had in haying four years since.
He's finished school, and teaching in his college.
Silas declares you'll have to get him back.
He says they two will make a team for work:
Between them they will lay this farm as smooth!
The way he mixed that in with other things.
He thinks young Wilson a likely lad, though daft
On education—-you know how they fought
All through July under the blazing sun,
Silas up on the cart to build the load,
Harold along beside to pitch it on."

"Yes, I took care to keep well out of earshot."

"Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream.
You wouldn't think they would. How some things
linger!
Harold's young college boy's assurance piqued him.
After so many years he still keeps finding
Good arguments he sees he might have used.
I sympathise. I know just how it feels
To think of the right thing to say too late.
Harold's associated in his mind with Latin.
He asked me what I thought of Harold's saying
He studied Latin like the violin
Because he liked it—-that an argument!
He said he couldn't make the boy believe
He could find water with a hazel prong—-
Which showed how much good school had ever done
him.
He wanted to go over that. But most of all
He thinks if he could have another chance
To teach him how to build a load of hay----"

"I know, that's Silas' one accomplishment.
He bundles every forkful in its place,
And tags and numbers it for future reference,
So he can find and easily dislodge it
In the unloading. Silas does that well.
He takes it out in bunches like big birds' nests.
You never see him standing on the hay
He's trying to lift, straining to lift himself."

"He thinks if he could teach him that, he'd be
Some good perhaps to someone in the world.
He hates to see a boy the fool of books.
Poor Silas, so concerned for other folk,
And nothing to look backward to with pride,
And nothing to look forward to with hope,
So now and never any different."

Part of a moon was falling down the west,
Dragging the whole sky with it to the hills.
Its light poured softly in her lap. She saw
And spread her apron to it. She put out her hand
Among the harp-like morning-glory strings,
Taut with the dew from garden bed to eaves,
As if she played unheard the tenderness
That wrought on him beside her in the night.
"Warren," she said, "he has come home to die:
You needn't be afraid he'll leave you this time."

"Home," he mocked gently.

"Yes, what else but home?

It all depends on what you mean by home.
Of course he's nothing to us, any more
Than was the hound that came a stranger to us
Out of the woods, worn out upon the trail."

"Home is the place where, when you have to go
there,
They have to take you in."

"I should have called it
Something you somehow haven't to deserve."

Warren leaned out and took a step or two,
Picked up a little stick, and brought it back
And broke it in his hand and tossed it by.
"Silas has better claim on us, you think,
Than on his brother? Thirteen little miles
As the road winds would bring him to his door.
Silas has walked that far no doubt to-day.
Why didn't he go there? His brother's rich,
A somebody—-director in the bank."

"He never told us that."

"We know it though."

"I think his brother ought to help, of course.
I'll see to that if there is need. He ought of right
To take him in, and might be willing to—-
He may be better than appearances.
But have some pity on Silas. Do you think
If he'd had any pride in claiming kin
Or anything he looked for from his brother,
He'd keep so still about him all this time?"

"I wonder what's between them."

"I can tell you.
Silas is what he is—-we wouldn't mind him—-
But just the kind that kinsfolk can't abide.
He never did a thing so very bad.
He don't know why he isn't quite as good
As anyone. He won't be made ashamed
To please his brother, worthless though he is."

"_I_ can't think Si ever hurt anyone."

"No, but he hurt my heart the way he lay
And rolled his old head on that sharp-edged
chair-back.
He wouldn't let me put him on the lounge.
You must go in and see what you can do.
I made the bed up for him there to-night.
You'll be surprised at him—-how much he's broken.
His working days are done; I'm sure of it."

"I'd not be in a hurry to say that."

"I haven't been. Go, look, see for yourself.
But, Warren, please remember how it is:
He's come to help you ditch the meadow.
He has a plan. You mustn't laugh at him.
He may not speak of it, and then he may.
I'll sit and see if that small sailing cloud
Will hit or miss the moon."

It hit the moon.
Then there were three there, making a dim row,
The moon, the little silver cloud, and she.

Warren returned—-too soon, it seemed to her,
Slipped to her side, caught up her hand and waited.

"Warren," she questioned.

"Dead," was all he answered.




A SERVANT TO SERVANTS


I didn't make you know how glad I was
To have you come and camp here on our land.
I promised myself to get down some day
And see the way you lived, but I don't know!
With a houseful of hungry men to feed
I guess you'd find. ... It seems to me
I can't express my feelings any more
Than I can raise my voice or want to lift
My hand (oh, I can lift it when I have to).
Did ever you feel so? I hope you never.
It's got so I don't even know for sure
Whether I _am_ glad, sorry, or anything.
There's nothing but a voice-like left inside
That seems to tell me how I ought to feel,
And would feel if I wasn't all gone wrong.
You take the lake. I look and look at it.
I see it's a fair, pretty sheet of water.
I stand and make myself repeat out loud
The advantages it has, so long and narrow,
Like a deep piece of some old running river
Cut short off at both ends. It lies five miles
Straight away through the mountain notch
From the sink window where I wash the plates,
And all our storms come up toward the house,
Drawing the slow waves whiter and whiter and
whiter.
It took my mind off doughnuts and soda biscuit
To step outdoors and take the water dazzle
A sunny morning, or take the rising wind
About my face and body and through my wrapper,
When a storm threatened from the Dragon's Den,
And a cold chill shivered across the lake.
I see it's a fair, pretty sheet of water,
Our Willoughby! How did you hear of it?
I expect, though, everyone's heard of it.
In a book about ferns? Listen to that!
You let things more like feathers regulate
Your going and coming. And you like it here?
I can see how you might. But I don't know!
It would be different if more people came,
For then there would be business. As it is,
The cottages Len built, sometimes we rent them,
Sometimes we don't. We've a good piece of shore
That ought to be worth something, and may yet.
But I don't count on it as much as Len.
He looks on the bright side of everything,
Including me. He thinks I'll be all right
With doctoring. But it's not medicine—-
Lowe is the only doctor's dared to say so—-
It's rest I want—-there, I have said it out—-
From cooking meals for hungry hired men
And washing dishes after them—-from doing
Things over and over that just won't stay done.
By good rights I ought not to have so much
Put on me, but there seems no other way.
Len says one steady pull more ought to do it.
He says the best way out is always through.
And I agree to that, or in so far
As that I can see no way out but through—-
Leastways for me—-and then they'll be convinced.
It's not that Len don't want the best for me.
It was his plan our moving over in
Beside the lake from where that day I showed you
We used to live—-ten miles from anywhere
We didn't change without some sacrifice,
But Len went at it to make up the loss.
His work's a man's, of course, from sun to sun,
But he works when he works as hard as I do—-
Though there's small profit in comparisons.
(Women and men will make them all the same.)
But work ain't all. Len undertakes too much.
He's into everything in town. This year
It's highways, and he's got too many men
Around him to look after that make waste.
They take advantage of him shamefully,
And proud, too, of themselves for doing so.
We have four here to board, great good-for-nothings,
Sprawling about the kitchen with their talk
While I fry their bacon. Much they care!
No more put out in what they do or say
Than if I wasn't in the room at all.
Coming and going all the time, they are:
I don't learn what their names are, let alone
Their characters, or whether they are safe
To have inside the house with doors unlocked.
I'm not afraid of them, though, if they're not
Afraid of me. There's two can play at that.
I have my fancies: it runs in the family.
My father's brother wasn't right. They kept him
Locked up for years back there at the old farm.
I've been away once—-yes, I've been away.
The State Asylum. I was prejudiced;
I wouldn't have sent anyone of mine there;
You know the old idea—-the only asylum
Was the poorhouse, and those who could afford,
Rather than send their folks to such a place,
Kept them at home; and it does seem more human.
But it's not so: the place is the asylum.
There they have every means proper to do with,
And you aren't darkening other people's lives—-
Worse than no good to them, and they no good
To you in your condition; you can't know
Affection or the want of it in that state.
I've heard too much of the old-fashioned way.
My father's brother, he went mad quite young.
Some thought he had been bitten by a dog,
Because his violence took on the form
Of carrying his pillow in his teeth;
But it's more likely he was crossed in love,
Or so the story goes. It was some girl.
Anyway, all he talked about was love.
They soon saw he would do someone a mischief
If he wa'n't kept strict watch of, and it ended
In father's building him a sort of cage,
Or room within a room, of hickory poles,
Like stanchions in the barn, from floor to ceiling,—-
A narrow passage all the way around.
Anything they put in for furniture
He'd tear to pieces, even a bed to lie on.
So they made the place comfortable with straw,
Like a beast's stall, to ease their consciences.
Of course they had to feed him without dishes.
They tried to keep him clothed, but he paraded
With his clothes on his arm—-all of his clothes.
Cruel—-it sounds. I s'pose they did the best
They knew. And just when he was at the height,
Father and mother married, and mother came,
A bride, to help take care of such a creature,
And accommodate her young life to his.
That was what marrying father meant to her.
She had to lie and hear love things made dreadful
By his shouts in the night. He'd shout and shout
Until the strength was shouted out of him,
And his voice died down slowly from exhaustion.
He'd pull his bars apart like bow and bow-string,
And let them go and make them twang until
His hands had worn them smooth as any ox-bow.
And then he'd crow as if he thought that child's
play—-
The only fun he had. I've heard them say, though,
They found a way to put a stop to it.
He was before my time—-I never saw him;
But the pen stayed exactly as it was
There in the upper chamber in the ell,
A sort of catch-all full of attic clutter.
I often think of the smooth hickory bars.
It got so I would say--you know, half fooling—-
"It's time I took my turn upstairs in jail"—-
Just as you will till it becomes a habit.
No wonder I was glad to get away.
Mind you, I waited till Len said the word.
I didn't want the blame if things went wrong.
I was glad though, no end, when we moved out,
And I looked to be happy, and I was,
As I said, for a while—-but I don't know!
Somehow the change wore out like a prescription.
And there's more to it than just window-views
And living by a lake. I'm past such help—-
Unless Len took the notion, which he won't,
And I won't ask him—-it's not sure enough.
I 'spose I've got to go the road I'm going:
Other folks have to, and why shouldn't I?
I almost think if I could do like you,
Drop everything and live out on the ground—-
But it might be, come night, I shouldn't like it,
Or a long rain. I should soon get enough,
And be glad of a good roof overhead.
I've lain awake thinking of you, I'll warrant,
More than you have yourself, some of these nights.
The wonder was the tents weren't snatched away
From over you as you lay in your beds.
I haven't courage for a risk like that.
Bless you, of course, you're keeping me from work,
But the thing of it is, I need to _be_ kept.
There's work enough to do—-there's always that;
But behind's behind. The worst that you can do
Is set me back a little more behind.
I shan't catch up in this world, anyway.
I'd rather you'd not go unless you must.




THE SELF-SEEKER


"Willis, I didn't want you here to-day:
The lawyer's coming for the company.
I'm going to sell my soul, or, rather, feet.
Five hundred dollars for the pair, you know."

"With you the feet have nearly been the soul;
And if you're going to sell them to the devil,
I want to see you do it. When's he coming?"

"I half suspect you knew, and came on purpose
To try to help me drive a better bargain."

"Well, if it's true! Yours are no common feet.
The lawyer don't know what it is he's buying:
So many miles you might have walked you won't
walk.
You haven't run your forty orchids down.
What does he think?—-How _are_ the blessed feet?
The doctor's sure you're going to walk again?"

"He thinks I'll hobble. It's both legs and feet."

"They must be terrible—-I mean to look at."

"I haven't dared to look at them uncovered.
Through the bed blankets I remind myself
Of a starfish laid out with rigid points."

"The wonder is it hadn't been your head."

"It's hard to tell you how I managed it.
When I saw the shaft had me by the coat,
I didn't try too long to pull away,
Or fumble for my knife to cut away,
I just embraced the shaft and rode it out—-
Till Weiss shut off the water in the wheel-pit.
That's how I think I didn't lose my head,
But my legs got their knocks against the ceiling."

"Awful. Why didn't they throw off the belt
Instead of going clear down in the wheel-pit?"

"They say sometime was wasted on the belt—-
Old streak of leather—doesn't love me much
Because I made him spit fire at my knuckles,
The way Ben Franklin used to make the kite-string.
That must be it. Some days he won't stay on.
That day a woman couldn't coax him off.
He's on his rounds now with his tail in his mouth
Snatched right and left across the silver pulleys.
Everything goes the same without me there.
You can hear the small buzz saws whine, the big saw
Caterwaul to the hills around the village
As they both bite the wood. It's all our music.
One ought as a good villager to like it.
No doubt it has a sort of prosperous sound,
And it's our life."

"Yes, when it's not our death."

"You make that sound as if it wasn't so
With everything. What we live by we die by.
I wonder where my lawyer is. His train's in.
I want this over with; I'm hot and tired."

"You're getting ready to do something foolish."

"Watch for him, will you, Will? You let him in.
I'd rather Mrs. Corbin didn't know;
I've boarded here so long, she thinks she owns me.
You're bad enough to manage without her."

"And I'm going to be worse instead of better.
You've got to tell me how far this is gone:
Have you agreed to any price?"

"Five hundred.
Five hundred—-five—-five! One, two, three, four,
five.
You needn't look at me."

"I don't believe you."

"I told you, Willis, when you first came in.
Don't you be hard on me. I have to take
What I can get. You see they have the feet,
Which gives them the advantage in the trade.
I can't get back the feet in any case."

"But your flowers, man, you're selling out your
flowers."

"Yes, that's one way to put it—-all the flowers
Of every kind everywhere in this region
For the next forty summers—-call it forty.
But I'm not selling those, I'm giving them,
They never earned me so much as one cent:
Money can't pay me for the loss of them.
No, the five hundred was the sum they named
To pay the doctor's bill and tide me over.
It's that or fight, and I don't want to fight—-
I just want to get settled in my life,
Such as it's going to be, and know the worst,
Or best—-it may not be so bad. The firm
Promise me all the shooks I want to nail."

"But what about your flora of the valley?"

"You have me there. But that—-you didn't think
That was worth money to me? Still, I own
It goes against me not to finish it
For the friends it might bring me. By the way,
I had a letter from Burroughs—-did I tell you?—-
About my _Cyprepedium reginœ_;
He says it's not reported so far north.
There! there's the bell. He's rung. But you go
down
And bring him up, and don't let Mrs. Corbin.—-
Oh, well, we'll soon be through with it. I'm tired."

Willis brought up besides the Boston lawyer
A little barefoot girl who in the noise
Of heavy footsteps in the old frame house,
And baritone importance of the lawyer,
Stood for a while unnoticed with her hands
Shyly behind her.

"Well, and how is Mister---"
The lawyer was already in his satchel
As if for papers that might bear the name
He hadn't at command. "You must excuse me,
I dropped in at the mill and was detained."

"Looking round, I suppose," said Willis.

Well, yes."
"Yes,

"Hear anything that might prove useful?"

The Broken One saw Anne. "Why, here is Anne
What do you want, dear? Come, stand by the bed;
Tell me what is it?" Anne just wagged her dress
With both hands held behind her. "Guess," she
said.

"Oh, guess which hand? My, my! Once on a
time
I knew a lovely way to tell for certain
By looking in the ears. But I forget it.
Er, let me see. I think 111 take the right.
That's sure to be right even if it's wrong.
Come, hold it out. Don't change.—-A Ram's Horn
orchid!
A Ram's Horn! What would I have got, I wonder,
If I had chosen left. Hold out the left.
Another Ram's Horn! Where did you find those,
Under what beech tree, on what woodchuck's knoll?"

Anne looked at the large lawyer at her side,
And thought she wouldn't venture on so much.

"Were there no others?"

"There were four or five.
I knew you wouldn't let me pick them all."

"I wouldn't—-so I wouldn't. You're the girl!
You see Anne has her lesson learned by heart."

"I wanted there should be some there next year."

"Of course you did. You left the rest for seed,
And for the backwoods woodchuck. You're the girl!
A Ram's Horn orchid seedpod for a woodchuck
Sounds something like. Better than farmer's beans
To a discriminating appetite,
Though the Ram's Horn is seldom to be had
In bushel lots—-doesn't come on the market.
But, Anne, I'm troubled; have you told me all?
You're hiding something. That's as bad as lying.
You ask this lawyer man. And it's not safe
With a lawyer at hand to find you out.
Nothing is hidden from some people, Anne.
You don't tell me that where you found a Ram's
Horn
You didn't find a Yellow Lady's Slipper.
What did I tell you? What? I'd blush, I would.
Don't you defend yourself. If it was there,
Where is it now, the Yellow Lady's Slipper?"

"Well, wait—it's common—-it's too _common._"

"Common?
The Purple Lady's Slipper's commoner."

"I didn't bring a Purple Lady's Slipper
To _You_-—to you I mean—-they're both too
common."

The lawyer gave a laugh among his papers
As if with some idea that she had scored.

"I've broken Anne of gathering bouquets.
It's not fair to the child. It can't be helped
though:
Pressed into service means pressed out of shape.
Somehow I'll make it right with her—-she'll see.
She's going to do my scouting in the field,
Over stone walls and all along a wood
And by a river bank for water flowers,
The floating Heart, with small leaf like a heart,
And at the _sinus_ under water a fist
Of little fingers all kept down but one,
And that thrust up to blossom in the sun
As if to say 'You! You're the Heart's desire.'
Anne has a way with flowers to take the place
Of that she's lost: she goes down on one knee
And lifts their faces by the chin to hers
And says their names, and leaves them where they
are."

The lawyer wore a watch the case of which
Was cunningly devised to make a noise
Like a small pistol when he snapped it shut
At such a time as this. He snapped it now.

"Well, Anne, go, dearie. Our affair will wait.
The lawyer man is thinking of his train.
He wants to give me lots and lots of money
Before he goes, because I hurt myself,
And it may take him I don't know how long.
But put our flowers in water first. Will, help her:
The pitcher's too full for her. There's no cup?
Just hook them on the inside of the pitcher.
Now run.—-Get out your documents! You see
I have to keep on the good side of Anne.
I'm a great boy to think of number one.
And you can't blame me in the place I'm in.
Who will take care of my necessities
Unless I do?"

"A pretty interlude,"
The lawyer said: "I'm sorry, but my train----
Luckily terms are all agreed upon.
You only have to sign your name. Right—-there."

"You, Will, stop making faces. Come round here
Where you can't make them. What is it you want?
I'll put you out with Anne. Be good or go."

"You don't mean you will sign that thing unread?"

"Make yourself useful then, and read it for me.
Isn't it something I have seen before?"

"You'll find it is. Let your friend look at it."

"Yes, but all that takes time, and I'm as much
In haste to get it over with as you.
But read it, read it. That's right, draw the curtain:
Half the time I don't know what's troubling me.—-
What do you say, Will? Don't you be a fool.
You! crumpling folkses' legal documents.
Out with it if you've any real objection."

"Five hundred dollars!"

"What would you think right?"

"A thousand wouldn't be a cent too much;
You know it, Mr. Lawyer. The sin is
Accepting anything before he knows
Whether he's ever going to walk again.
It smells to me like a dishonest trick."

"I think—-I think—-from what I heard to-day—-
And saw myself—-he would be ill-advised----"

"What did you hear, for instance?" Willis said.

"Now the place where the accident occurred----"

The Broken One was twisted in his bed.
"This is between you two apparently.
Where I come in is what I want to know.
You stand up to it like a pair of cocks.
Go outdoors if you want to fight. Spare me.
When you come back, I'll have the papers signed.
Will pencil do? Then, please, your fountain pen.
One of you hold my head up from the pillow."

Willis flung off the bed. "I wash my hands—-
I'm no match—-no, and don't pretend to be----"

The lawyer gravely capped his fountain pen.
"You're doing the wise thing: you won't regret it.
We're very sorry for you."

Willis sneered:
"Who's _we?_—-some stockholders in Boston?
I'll go outdoors, by gad! and won't come back."

"Willis, bring Anne back with you when you come.
Yes. Thanks for caring. Don't mind Will: he's
savage.
He thinks you ought to pay me for my flowers.
You don't know what I mean about the flowers.
Don't stop to try now. You'll miss your train.
Good-bye." He flung his arms around his face.




THE HILL WIFE




LONELINESS
(_Her Word_)


One ought not to have to care
So much as you and I
Care when the birds come round the house
To seem to say good-bye;

Or care so much when they come back
With whatever it is they sing;
The truth being we are as much
Too glad for the one thing

As we are too sad for the other here—-
With birds that fill their breasts
But with each other and themselves
And their built or driven nests.




HOUSE FEAR


Always—-I tell you this they learned—-
Always at night when they returned
To the lonely house from far away
To lamps unlighted and fire gone gray,
They learned to rattle the lock and key
To give whatever might chance to be
Warning and time to be off in flight:
And preferring the out- to the in-door night,
They learned to leave the house-door wide
Until they had lit the lamp inside.




THE SMILE
(_Her Word_)


I didn't like the way he went away.
That smile! It never came of being gay.
Still, he smiled—-did you see him?—-I was sure!
Perhaps because we gave him only bread
And the wretch knew from that that we were poor.
Perhaps because he let us give instead
Of seizing from us as he might have seized.
Perhaps he mocked at us for being wed,
Or being very young (and he was pleased
To have a vision of us old and dead).
I wonder how far down the road he's got.
He's watching from the woods as like as not.




THE OFT-REPEATED DREAM


She had no saying dark enough
For the dark pine that kept
Forever trying the window-latch
Of the room where they slept.

The tireless but ineffectual hands
That with every futile pass
Made the great tree seem as a little bird
Before the mystery of glass!

It never had been inside the room,
And only one of the two
Was afraid in an oft-repeated dream
Of what the tree might do.




THE IMPULSE


It was too lonely for her there,
And too wild,
And since there were but two of them,
And no child,

And work was little in the house,
She was free,
And followed where he furrowed field,
Or felled tree.

She rested on a log and tossed
The fresh chips,
With a song only to herself
On her lips.

And once she went to break a bough
Of black alder.
She strayed so far she scarcely heard
When he called her—-

And didn't answer—-didn't speak—-
Or return.
She stood, and then she ran and hid
In the fern.

He never found her, though he looked
Everywhere,
And he asked at her mother's house
Was she there.

Sudden and swift and light as that
The ties gave,
And he learned of finalities
Besides the grave.



"OUT, OUT----"


The buzz-saw snarled and rattled in the yard
And made dust and dropped stove-length sticks of
wood,
Sweet-scented stuff when the breeze drew across it.
And from there those that lifted eyes could count
Five mountain ranges one behind the other
Under the sunset far into Vermont.
And the saw snarled and rattled, snarled and rattled,
As it ran light, or had to bear a load.
And nothing happened: day was all but done.
Call it a day, I wish they might have said
To please the boy by giving him the half hour
That a boy counts so much when saved from work.
His sister stood beside them in her apron
To tell them "Supper." At the word, the saw,
As if to prove saws knew what supper meant,
Leaped out at the boy's hand, or seemed to leap—-
He must have given the hand. However it was,
Neither refused the meeting. But the hand!
The boy's first outcry was a rueful laugh.
As he swung toward them holding up the hand
Half in appeal, but half as if to keep
The life from spilling. Then the boy saw all—-
Since he was old enough to know, big boy
Doing a man's work, though a child at heart—-
He saw all spoiled. "Don't let him cut my hand off—-
The doctor, when he comes. Don't let him, sister!"
So. But the hand was gone already.
The doctor put him in the dark of ether.
He lay and puffed his lips out with his breath.
And then—-the watcher at his pulse took fright.
No one believed. They listened at his heart.
Little—-less—-nothing!—-and that ended it.
No more to build on there. And they, since they
Were not the one dead, turned to their affairs.




III




PUTTING IN THE SEED


You come to fetch me from my work to-night
When supper's on the table, and we'll see
If I can leave off burying the white
Soft petals fallen from the apple tree
(Soft petals, yes, but not so barren quite,
Mingled with these, smooth bean and wrinkled
pea);
And go along with you ere you lose sight
Of what you came for and become like me,
Slave to a springtime passion for the earth.
How Love bums through the Putting in the Seed
On through the watching for that early birth
When, just as the soil tarnishes with weed,
The sturdy seedling with arched body comes
Shouldering its way and shedding the earth crumbs.




GOING FOR WATER


The well was dry beside the door,
And so we went with pail and can
Across the fields behind the house
To seek the brook if still it ran;

Not loth to have excuse to go,
Because the autumn eve was fair
(Though chill), because the fields were ours,
And by the brook our woods were there.

We ran as if to meet the moon
That slowly dawned behind the trees,
The barren boughs without the leaves,
Without the birds, without the breeze.

But once within the wood, we paused
Like gnomes that hid us from the moon,
Ready to run to hiding new
With laughter when she found us soon.

Each laid on other a staying hand
To listen ere we dared to look,
And in the hush we joined to make
We heard, we knew we heard the brook.

A note as from a single place,
A slender tinkling fall that made
Now drops that floated on the pool
Like pearls, and now a silver blade.




MOWING


There was never a sound beside the wood but one,
And that was my long scythe whispering to the
ground.
What was it it whispered? I knew not well myself;
Perhaps it was something about the heat of the sun,
Something, perhaps, about the lack of sound—-
And that was why it whispered and did not speak.
It was no dream of the gift of idle hours,
Or easy gold at the hand of fay or elf:
Anything more than the truth would have seemed
too weak
To the earnest love that laid the swale in rows,
Not without feeble-pointed spikes of flowers
(Pale orchises), and scared a bright green snake.
The fact is the sweetest dream that labour knows.
My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make.




IV




AFTER APPLE-PICKING


My long two-pointed ladder's sticking through a tree
Toward heaven still,
And there's a barrel that I didn't fill
Beside it, and there may be two or three
Apples I didn't pick upon some bough.
But I am done with apple-picking now.
Essence of winter sleep is on the night,
The scent of apples: I am drowsing off.
I cannot rub the strangeness from my sight
I got from looking through a pane of glass
I skimmed this morning from the drinking trough
And held against the world of hoary grass.
It melted, and I let it fall and break.
But I was well
Upon my way to sleep before it fell,
And I could tell
What form my dreaming was about to take.
Magnified apples appear and disappear,
Stem end and blossom end,
And every fleck of russet showing clear.
My instep arch not only keeps the ache,
It keeps the pressure of a ladder-round.
I feel the ladder sway as the boughs bend.
And I keep hearing from the cellar bin
The rumbling sound
Of load on load of apples coming in.
For I have had too much
Of apple-picking: I am overtired
Of the great harvest I myself desired.
There were ten thousand thousand fruit to touch,
Cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall.
For all
That struck the earth,
No matter if not bruised or spiked with stubble,
Went surely to the cider-apple heap
As of no worth.
One can see what will trouble
This sleep of mine, whatever sleep it is.
Were he not gone,
The woodchuck could say whether it's like his
Long sleep, as I describe its coming on,
Or just some human sleep.




BIRCHES


When I see birches bend to left and right
Across the lines of straighter darker trees,
I like to think some boy's been swinging them.
But swinging doesn't bend them down to stay.
Ice-storms do that. Often you must have seen them
Loaded with ice a sunny winter morning
After a rain. They click upon themselves
As the breeze rises, and turn many-coloured
As the stir cracks and crazes their enamel.
Soon the sun's warmth makes them shed crystal
shells
Shattering and avalanching on the snow-crust—-
Such heaps of broken glass to sweep away
You'd think the inner dome of heaven had fallen.
They are dragged to the withered bracken by the
load,
And they seem not to break; though once they are
bowed
So low for long, they never right themselves:
You may see their trunks arching in the woods
Years afterwards, trailing their leaves on the ground,
Like girls on hands and knees that throw their hair
Before them over their heads to dry in the sun.
But I was going to say when Truth broke in
With all her matter-of-fact about the ice-storm,
I should prefer to have some boy bend them
As he went out and in to fetch the cows—-
Some boy too far from town to learn baseball,
Whose only play was what he found himself,
Summer or winter, and could play alone.
One by one he subdued his father's trees
By riding them down over and over again
Until he took the stiffness out of them,
And not one but hung limp, not one was left
For him to conquer. He learned all there was
To learn about not launching out too soon
And so not carrying the tree away
Clear to the ground. He always kept his poise
To the top branches, climbing carefully
With the same pains you use to fill a cup
Up to the brim, and even above the brim.
Then he flung outward, feet first, with a swish,
Kicking his way down through the air to the ground.
So was I once myself a swinger of birches.
And so I dream of going back to be.
It's when I'm weary of considerations,
And life is too much like a pathless wood
Where your face burns and tickles with the cobwebs
Broken across it, and one eye is weeping
From a twig's having lashed across it open.
I'd like to get away from earth awhile
And then come back to it and begin over.
May no fate wilfully misunderstand me
And half grant what I wish and snatch me away
Not to return. Earth's the right place for love:
I don't know where it's likely to go better.
I'd like to go by climbing a birch tree,
And climb black branches up a snow-white trunk
_Toward_ heaven, till the tree could bear no more,
But dipped its top and set me down again.
That would be good both going and coming back.
One could do worse than be a swinger of birches.




THE GUM-GATHERER


There overtook me and drew me in
To his down-hill, early-morning stride,
And set me five miles on my road
Better than if he had had me ride,
A man with a swinging bag for load
And half the bag wound round his hand.
We talked like barking above the din
Of water we walked along beside.
And for my telling him where I'd been
And where I lived in mountain land
To be coming home the way I was,
He told me a little about himself.
He came from higher up in the pass
Where the grist of the new-beginning brooks
Is blocks split off the mountain mass—-
And hopeless grist enough it looks
Ever to grind to soil for grass.
(The way it is will do for moss.)
There he had built his stolen shack.
It had to be a stolen shack
Because of the fears of fire and loss
That trouble the sleep of lumber folk:
Visions of half the world burned black
And the sun shrunken yellow in smoke.
We know who when they come to town
Bring berries under the wagon seat,
Or a basket of eggs between their feet;
What this man brought in a cotton sack
Was gum, the gum of the mountain spruce.
He showed me lumps of the scented stuff
Like uncut jewels, dull and rough.
It comes to market golden brown;
But turns to pink between the teeth.

I told him this is a pleasant life
To set your breast to the bark of trees
That all your days are dim beneath,
And reaching up with a little knife,
To loose the resin and take it down
And bring it to market when you please.




THE MOUNTAIN


The mountain held the town as in a shadow.
I saw so much before I slept there once:
I noticed that I missed stars in the west,
Where its black body cut into the sky.
Near me it seemed: I felt it like a wall
Behind which I was sheltered from a wind.
And yet between the town and it I found,
When I walked forth at dawn to see new things,
Were fields, a river, and beyond, more fields.
The river at the time was fallen away,
And made a widespread brawl on cobble-stones;
But the signs showed what it had done in spring;
Good grass-land gullied out, and in the grass
Ridges of sand, and driftwood stripped of bark.
I crossed the river and swung round the mountain.
And there I met a man who moved so slow
With white-faced oxen in a heavy cart,
It seemed no harm to stop him altogether.

"What town is this?" I asked.

"This? Lunenburg."
Then I was wrong: the town of my sojourn,
Beyond the bridge, was not that of the mountain,
But only felt at night its shadowy presence.
"Where is your village? Very far from here?"

"There is no village—-only scattered farms.
We were but sixty voters last election.
We can't in nature grow to many more:
That thing takes all the room!" He moved his goad.
The mountain stood there to be pointed at.
Pasture ran up the side a little way,
And then there was a wall of trees with trunks:
After that only tops of trees, and cliffs
Imperfectly concealed among the leaves.
A dry ravine emerged from under boughs
Into the pasture.

"That looks like a path.
Is that the way to reach the top from here?—-
Not for this morning, but some other time:
I must be getting back to breakfast now."

"I don't advise your trying from this side.
There is no proper path, but those that _have_
Been up, I understand, have climbed from Ladd's.
That's five miles back. You can't mistake the place:
They logged it there last winter some way up.
I'd take you, but I'm bound the other way."

"You've never climbed it?"

"I've been on the sides
Deer-hunting and trout-fishing. There's a brook
That starts up on it somewhere—-I've heard say
Right on the top, tip-top—-a curious thing.
But what would interest you about the brook,
It's always cold in summer, warm in winter.
One of the great sights going is to see
It steam in winter like an ox's breath.
Until the bushes all along its banks
Are inch-deep with the frosty spines and bristles—-
You know the kind. Then let the sun shine on it!"

"There ought to be a view around the world
From such a mountain—-if it isn't wooded
Clear to the top." I saw through leafy screens
Great granite terraces in sun and shadow,
Shelves one could rest a knee on getting up—-
With depths behind him sheer a hundred feet;
Or turn and sit on and look out and down,
With little ferns in crevices at his elbow.

"As to that I can't say. But there's the spring,
Right on the summit, almost like a fountain.
That ought to be worth seeing."

"If it's there.
You never saw it?"

I guess there's no doubt
About its being there. I never saw it.
It may not be right on the very top:
It wouldn't have to be a long way down
To have some head of water from above,
And a _good distance_ down might not be noticed
By anyone who'd come a long way up.
One time I asked a fellow climbing it
To look and tell me later how it was."

"What did he say?"

"He said there was a lake
Somewhere in Ireland on a mountain top."

"But a lake's different. What about the spring?"

"He never got up high enough to see.
That's why I don't advise your trying this side.
He tried this side. I've always meant to go
And look myself, but you know how it is:
It doesn't seem so much to climb a mountain
You've worked around the foot of all your life.
What would I do? Go in my overalls,
With a big stick, the same as when the cows
Haven't come down to the bars at milking time?
Or with a shotgun for a stray black bear?
'Twouldn't seem real to climb for climbing it."

"I shouldn't climb it if I didn't want to—-
Not for the sake of climbing. What's its name?"

"We call it Hor: I don't know if that's right."

"Can one walk round it? Would it be too far?"

"You can drive round and keep in Lunenburg,
But it's as much as ever you can do,
The boundary lines keep in so close to it.
Hor is the township, and the township's Hor—-
_And_ a few houses sprinkled round the foot,
Like boulders broken off the upper cliff,
Rolled out a little farther than the rest."

"Warm in December, cold in June, you say?"

"I don't suppose the waters changed at all.
You and I know enough to know it's warm
Compared with cold, and cold compared with warm.
But all the fun's in how you say a thing."

"You've lived here all your life?"

"Ever since Hor

Was no bigger than a----" What, I did not hear.
He drew the oxen toward him with light touches
Of his slim goad on nose and offside flank,
Gave them their marching orders, and was moving.




THE TUFT OF FLOWERS


I went to turn the grass once after one
Who mowed it in the dew before the sun.

The dew was gone that made his blade so keen
Before I came to view the levelled scene.

I looked for him behind an isle of trees;
I listened for his whetstone on the breeze.

But he had gone his way, the grass all mown,
And I must be, as he had been—-alone,

"As all must be," I said within my heart,
"Whether they work together or apart."

But as I said it, swift there passed me by
On noiseless wing a bewildered butterfly,

Seeking with memories grown dim o'er night
Some resting flower of yesterday's delight.

And once I marked his flight go round and round,
As where some flower lay withering on the ground.

And then he flew as far as eye could see,
And then on tremulous wing came back to me.

I thought of questions that have no reply,
And would have turned to toss the grass to dry;

But he turned first, and led my eye to look
At a tall tuft of flowers beside a brook,

A leaping tongue of bloom the scythe had spared
Beside a reedy brook the scythe had bared.

I left my place to know them by their name,
Finding them butterfly weed when I came.

The mower in the dew had loved them thus,
By leaving them to flourish, not for us,

Nor yet to draw one thought of ours to him.
But from sheer morning gladness at the brim.

The butterfly and I had lit upon,
Nevertheless, a message from the dawn.

That made me hear the wakening birds around,
And hear his long scythe whispering to the ground,

And feel a spirit kindred to my own;
So that henceforth I worked no more alone;

But glad with him, I worked as with his aid,
And weary, sought at noon with him the shade;

And dreaming, as it were, held brotherly speech
With one whose thought I had not hoped to reach.

"Men work together," I told him from the heart,
"Whether they work together or apart."




MENDING WALL


Something there is that doesn't love a wall,
That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it,
And spills the upper boulders in the sun;
And makes gaps even two can pass abreast.
The work of hunters is another thing:
I have come after them and made repair
Where they have left not one stone on a stone,
But they would have the rabbit out of hiding,
To please the yelping dogs. The gaps I mean,
No one has seen them made or heard them made,
But at spring mending-time we find them there.
I let my neighbour know beyond the hill;
And on a day we meet to walk the line
And set the wall between us once again.
We keep the wall between us as we go.
To each the boulders that have fallen to each.
And some are loaves and some so nearly balls
We have to use a spell to make them balance:
"Stay where you are until our backs are turned!"
We wear our fingers rough with handling them.
Oh, just another kind of out-door game,
One on a side. It comes to little more:
There where it is we do not need the wall:
He is all pine and I am apple orchard.
My apple trees will never get across
And eat the cones under his pines, I tell him.
He only says, "Good fences make good neighbours."
Spring is the mischief in me, and I wonder
If I could put a notion in his head:
"_Why_ do they make good neighbours? Isn't it
Where there are cows? But here there are no cows.
Before I built a wall I'd ask to know
What I was walling in or walling out,
And to whom I was like to give offence.
Something there is that doesn't love a wall,
That wants it down." I could say "Elves" to him,
But it's not elves exactly, and I'd rather
He said it for himself. I see him there
Bringing a stone grasped firmly by the top
In each hand, like an old-stone savage armed.
He moves in darkness as it seems to me,
Not of woods only and the shade of trees.
He will not go behind his father's saying,
And he likes having thought of it so well
He says again, "Good fences make good
neighbours."




AN ENCOUNTER


Once on the kind of day called "weather breeder,"
When the heat slowly hazes and the sun
By its own power seems to be undone,
I was half boring through, half climbing through,
A swamp of cedar. Choked with oil of cedar
And scurf of plants, and weary and over-heated,
And sorry I ever left the road I knew,
I paused and rested on a sort of hook
That had me by the coat as good as seated,
And since there was no other way to look,
Looked up toward heaven, and there against the
blue
Stood over me a resurrected tree,
A tree that had been down and raised again—-
A barkless spectre. He had halted too,
As if for fear of treading upon me.
I saw the strange position of his hands—-
Up at his shoulders, dragging yellow strands
Of wire with something in it from men to men.
"You here?" I said. "Where aren't you nowadays?
And what's the news you carry—-if you know?
And tell me where you're off for-—Montreal?
Me? I'm not off for anywhere at all.
Sometimes I wander out of beaten ways
Half looking for the orchid Calypso."




THE WOOD-PILE


Out walking in the frozen swamp one gray day
I paused and said, "I will turn back from here.
No, I will go on farther—-and we shall see."
The hard snow held me, save where now and then
One foot went through. The view was all in lines
Straight up and down of tall slim trees
Too much alike to mark or name a place by
So as to say for certain I was here
Or somewhere else: I was just far from home.
A small bird flew before me. He was careful
To put a tree between us when he lighted,
And say no word to tell me who he was
Who was so foolish as to think what _he_ thought.
He thought that I was after him for a feather—-
The white one in his tail; like one who takes
Everything said as personal to himself.
One flight out sideways would have undeceived him.
And then there was a pile of wood for which
I forgot him and let his little fear
Carry him off the way I might have gone,
Without so much as wishing him good-night.
He went behind it to make his last stand.
It was a cord of maple, cut and split
And piled—-and measured, four by four by eight.
And not another like it could I see.
No runner tracks in this year's snow looped near it.
And it was older sure than this year's cutting,
Or even last year's or the year's before.
The wood was gray and the bark warping off it
And the pile somewhat sunken. Clematis
Had wound strings round and round it like a bundle.
What held it though on one side was a tree
Still growing, and on one a stake and prop,
These latter about to fall. I thought that only
Someone who lived in turning to fresh tasks
Could so forget his handiwork on which
He spent himself, the labour of his axe,
And leave it there far from a useful fireplace
To warm the frozen swamp as best it could
With the slow smokeless burning of decay.




V




SNOW


The three stood listening to a fresh access
Of wind that caught against the house a moment,
Gulped snow, and then blew free again—-the Coles
Dressed, but dishevelled from some hours of sleep,
Meserve belittled in the great skin coat he wore.

Meserve was first to speak. He pointed backward
Over his shoulder with his pipe-stem, saying,
"You can just see it glancing off the roof
Making a great scroll upward toward the sky,
Long enough for recording all our names on;
I think I'll just call up my wife and tell her
I'm here—-so far—-and starting on again.
I'll call her softly so that if she's wise
And gone to sleep, she needn't wake to answer."
Three times he barely stirred the bell, then listened.
"Why, Lett, still up? Lett, I'm at Cole's. I'm late.
I called you up to say Good-night from here
Before I went to say Good-morning there.—-
I thought I would.—-I know, but, Lett—-I know—-
I could, but what's the sense? The rest won't be
So bad.—-Give me an hour for it.—-Ho, ho!
Three hours to here! But that was all up hill;
The rest is down.—-Why, no, no, not a wallow:
They kept their heads and took their time to it
Like darlings, both of them. They're in the barn.—-
My dear, I'm coming just the same. I didn't
Call you to ask you to invite me home.—-"
He lingered for some word she wouldn't say,
Said it at last himself, "Good-night," and then,
Getting no answer, closed the telephone.
The three stood in the lamplight round the table
With lowered eyes a moment till he said,
"I'll just see how the horses are."

"Yes, do,"
Both the Coles said together. Mrs. Cole
Added: "You can judge better after seeing.—-
I want you here with me, Fred. Leave him here,
Brother Meserve. You know to find your way
Out through the shed."

"I guess I know my way,
I guess I know where I can find my name
Carved in the shed to tell me who I am
If it don't tell me where I am. I used
To play----"

"You tend your horses and come back.
Fred Cole, you're going to let him!"

"Well, aren't you?
How can you help yourself?"

"I called him Brother.
Why did I call him that?"

"It's right enough.
That's all you ever heard him called round here.
He seems to have lost off his Christian name."

"Christian enough I should call that myself.
He took no notice, did he? Well, at least
I didn't use it out of love of him,
The dear knows. I detest the thought of him
With his ten children under ten years old.
I hate his wretched little Racker Sect,
All's ever I heard of it, which isn't much.
But that's not saying---- Look, Fred Cole, it's
twelve,
Isn't it, now? He's been here half an hour.
He says he left the village store at nine.
Three hours to do four miles—-a mile an hour
Or not much better. Why, it doesn't seem
As if a man could move that slow and move.
Try to think what he did with all that time.
And three miles more to go!"

"Don't let him go.
Stick to him, Helen. Make him answer you.
That sort of man talks straight on all his life
From the last thing he said himself, stone deaf
To anything anyone else may say.
I should have thought, though, you could make him
hear you."

"What is he doing out a night like this?
Why can't he stay at home?"

"He had to preach."

"It's no night to be out."

"He may be small,
He may be good, but one thing's sure, he's tough."

"And strong of stale tobacco."

"He'll pull through."

"You only say so. Not another house
Or shelter to put into from this place
To theirs. I'm going to call his wife again."

"Wait and he may. Let's see what he will do.
Let's see if he will think of her again.
But then I doubt he's thinking of himself.
He doesn't look on it as anything."

"He shan't go--there!"

"It is a night, my dear."

"One thing: he dicing drag God into it."

"He don't consider it a case for God."

"You think so, do you? You don't know the kind.
He's getting up a miracle this minute.
Privately—-to himself, right now, he's thinking
He'll make a case of it if he succeeds,
But keep still if he fails."

"Keep still all over.
He'll be dead--dead and buried."

"Such a trouble!
Not but I've every reason not to care
What happens to him if it only takes
Some of the sanctimonious conceit
Out of one of those pious scalawags."

"Nonsense to that! You want to see him safe."

"You like the runt."

"Don't you a little?"

"Well,
I don't like what he's doing, which is what
You like, and like him for."

"Oh, yes, you do
You like your fun as well as anyone;
Only you women have to put these airs on
To impress men. You've got us so ashamed
Of being men we can't look at a good fight
Between two boys and not feel bound to stop it.
Let the man freeze an ear or two, I say.—-
He's here. I leave him all to you. Go in
And save his life.—-All right, come in, Meserve
Sit down, sit down. How did you find the horses?"

"Fine, fine."

"And ready for some more? My wife here
Says it won't do. You've got to give it up."

"Won't you to please me? Please! If I say please?
Mr. Meserve, I'll leave it to _your_ wife.
What _did_ your wife say on the telephone?"

Meserve seemed to heed nothing but the lamp
Or something not far from it on the table.
By straightening out and lifting a forefinger,
He pointed with his hand from where it lay
Like a white crumpled spider on his knee:
"That leaf there in your open book! It moved
Just then, I thought. It's stood erect like that,
There on the table, ever since I came,
Trying to turn itself backward or forward,
I've had my eye on it to make out which;
If forward, then it's with a friend's impatience—-
You see I know—-to get you on to things
It wants to see how you will take, if backward
It's from regret for something you have passed
And failed to see the good of. Never mind,
Things must expect to come in front of us
A many times—-I don't say just how many—-
That varies with the things—-before we see them.
One of the lies would make it out that nothing
Ever presents itself before us twice.
Where would we be at last if that were so?
Our very life depends on everything's
Recurring till we answer from within.
The thousandth time may prove the charm.—-That
leaf!
It can't turn either way. It needs the wind's help.
But the wind didn't move it if it moved.
It moved itself. The wind's at naught in here.
It couldn't stir so sensitively poised
A thing as that. It couldn't reach the lamp
To get a puff of black smoke from the flame,
Or blow a rumple in the collie's coat.
You make a little foursquare block of air,
Quiet and light and warm, in spite of all
The illimitable dark and cold and storm,
And by so doing give these three, lamp, dog,
And book-leaf, that keep near you, their repose;
Though for all anyone can tell, repose
May be the thing you haven't, yet you give it.
So false it is that what we haven't we can't give;
So false, that what we always say is true.
I'll have to turn the leaf if no one else will.
It won't lie down. Then let it stand. Who cares?"

"I shouldn't want to hurry you, Meserve,
But if you're going—- Say you'll stay, you know?
But let me raise this curtain on a scene,
And show you how it's piling up against you.
You see the snow-white through the white of frost?
Ask Helen how far up the sash it's climbed
Since last we read the gage."

"It looks as if
Some pallid thing had squashed its features flat
And its eyes shut with overeagerness
To see what people found so interesting
In one another, and had gone to sleep
Of its own stupid lack of understanding,
Or broken its white neck of mushroom stuff
Short off, and died against the window-pane."

"Brother Meserve, take care, you'll scare yourself
More than you will us with such nightmare talk.
It's you it matters to, because it's you
Who have to go out into it alone."

"Let him talk, Helen, and perhaps he'll stay."

"Before you drop the curtain—-I'm reminded:
You recollect the boy who came out here
To breathe the air one winter—-had a room
Down at the Averys'? Well, one sunny morning
After a downy storm, he passed our place
And found me banking up the house with snow.
And I was burrowing in deep for warmth,
Piling it well above the window-sills.
The snow against the window caught his eye.
'Hey, that's a pretty thought'—-those were his
words.
'So you can think it's six feet deep outside,
While you sit warm and read up balanced rations.
You can't get too much winter in the winter.'
Those were his words. And he went home and
all
But banked the daylight out of Avery's windows.
Now you and I would go to no such length.
At the same time you can't deny it makes
It not a mite worse, sitting here, we three,
Playing our fancy, to have the snowline run
So high across the pane outside. There where
There is a sort of tunnel in the frost
More like a tunnel than a hole—-way down
At the far end of it you see a stir
And quiver like the frayed edge of the drift
Blown in the wind. I _like_ that—-I like that.
Well, now I leave you, people."

"Come, Meserve,
We thought you were deciding not to go—-
The ways you found to say the praise of comfort
And being where you are. You want to stay."

"I'll own it's cold for such a fall of snow.
This house is frozen brittle, all except
This room you sit in. If you think the wind
Sounds further off, it's not because it's dying;
You're further under in the snow—-that's all—-
And feel it less. Hear the soft bombs of dust
It bursts against us at the chimney mouth,
And at the eaves. I like it from inside
More than I shall out in it. But the horses
Are rested and it's time to say good-night,
And let you get to bed again. Good-night,
Sorry I had to break in on your sleep."

"Lucky for you you did. Lucky for you
You had us for a half-way station
To stop at. If you were the kind of man
Paid heed to women, you'd take my advice
And for your family's sake stay where you are.
But what good is my saying it over and over?
You've done more than you had a right to think
You could do—-_now._ You know the risk you take
In going on."

"Our snow-storms as a rule
Aren't looked on as man-killers, and although
I'd rather be the beast that sleeps the sleep
Under it all, his door sealed up and lost,
Than the man fighting it to keep above it,
Yet think of the small birds at roost and not
In nests. Shall I be counted less than they are?
Their bulk in water would be frozen rock
In no time out to-night. And yet to-morrow
They will come budding boughs from tree to tree
Flirting their wings and saying Chickadee,
As if not knowing what you meant by the word
storm."

"But why when no one wants you to go on?
Your wife—-she doesn't want you to. We don't,
And you yourself don't want to. Who else is there?"

"Save us from being cornered by a woman.
Well, there's"—-She told Fred afterward that in
The pause right there, she thought the dreaded word
Was coming, "God." But no, he only said
"Well, there's—-the storm. That says I must go on.
That wants me as a war might if it came.
Ask any man."

He threw her that as something
To last her till he got outside the door.

He had Cole with him to the barn to see him off.
When Cole returned he found his wife still standing
Beside the table near the open book,
Not reading it.

"Well, what kind of a man
Do you call that?" she said.

"He had the gift
Of words, or is it tongues, I ought to say?"

"Was ever such a man for seeing likeness?"

"Or disregarding peopled civil questions—-
What? We've found out in one hour more about
him
Than we had seeing him pass by in the road
A thousand times. If that's the way he preaches!
You didn't think you'd keep him after all.
Oh, I'm not blaming you. He didn't leave you
Much say in the matter, and I'm just as glad
We're not in for a night of him. No sleep
If he had stayed. The least thing set him going.
It's quiet as an empty church without him."

"But how much better off are we as it is?
We'll have to sit here till we know he's safe."

"Yes, I suppose you'll want to, but I shouldn't.
He knows what he can do, or he wouldn't try.
Get into bed I say, and get some rest.
He won't come back, and if he telephones,
It won't be for an hour or two."

"Well then
We can't be any help by sitting here
And living his fight through with him, I suppose.

-----

Cole had been telephoning in the dark.
Mrs. Cole's voice came from an inner room:
"Did she call you or you call her?"

"She me.
You'd better dress: you won't go back to bed.
We must have been asleep: it's three and after."

"Had she been ringing long? I'll get my wrapper.
I want to speak to her."

"All she said was,
He hadn't come and had he really started."

"She knew he had, poor thing, two hours ago.

"He had the shovel. Hell have made a fight."

"Why did I ever let him leave this house!"

"Don't begin that. You did the best you could
To keep him—-though perhaps you didn't quite
Conceal a wish to see him show the spunk
To disobey you. Much his wife'll thank you."

"Fred, after all I said! You shan't make out
That it was any way but what it was.
Did she let on by any word she said
She didn't thank me?"

"When I told her 'Gone,'
'Well then,' she said, and 'Well then'—-like a
threat.
And then her voice came scraping slow: 'Oh, you,
Why did you let him go'?"

"Asked why we let him?
You let me there. I'll ask her why she let him.
She didn't dare to speak when he was here.
Their number's—-twenty-one? The thing won't
work.
Someone's receiver's down. The handle stumbles.
The stubborn thing, the way it jars your arm!
It's theirs. She's dropped it from her hand and
gone."

"Try speaking. Say 'Hello'!"

"Hello, Hello."

"What do you hear?"

"I hear an empty room—-
You know—-it sounds that way. And yes, I hear—-
I think I hear a clock—-and windows rattling.
No step though. If she's there she's sitting down."

"Shout, she may hear you."

"Shouting is no good."

"Keep speaking then."

"Hello. Hello. Hello.
You don't suppose—-? She wouldn't go out doors?"

"I'm half afraid that's just what she might do."

"And leave the children?"

"Wait and call again.
You can't hear whether she has left the door
Wide open and the wind's blown out the lamp
And the fire's died and the room's dark and cold?"

"One of two things, either she's gone to bed
Or gone out doors."

"In which case both are lost.
Do you know what she's like? Have you ever met
her?
It's strange she doesn't want to speak to us."

"Fred, see if you can hear what I hear. Come."

"A clock maybe."

"Don't you hear something else?"

"Not talking."

"No."

"Why, yes, I hear—-what is it?"

"What do you say it is?"

"A baby's crying!
Frantic it sounds, though muffled and far off."

"Its mother wouldn't let it cry like that,
Not if she's there."

"What do you make of it?"

"There's only one thing possible to make,
That is, assuming—-that she has gone out.
Of course she hasn't though." They both sat down
Helpless. "There's nothing we can do till
morning."

"Fred, I shan't let you think of going out."

"Hold on." The double bell began to chirp.
They started up. Fred took the telephone.
"Hello, Meserve. You're there, then!—-And your
wife?

Good! Why I asked—-she didn't seem to answer.
He says she went to let him in the barn.—-
We're glad. Oh, say no more about it, man.
Drop in and see us when you're passing."

"Well.
She has him then, though what she wants him for
I _don't_ see."

"Possibly not for herself.
Maybe she only wants him for the children."

"The whole to-do seems to have been for nothing.
What spoiled our night was to him just his fun.
What did he come in for?—-To talk and visit?
Thought he'd just call to tell us it was snowing.
If he thinks he is going to make our house
A halfway coffee house 'twixt town and
nowhere----"

"I thought you'd feel you'd been too much
concerned."

"You think you haven't been concerned yourself."

"If you mean he was inconsiderate
To rout us out to think for him at midnight
And then take our advice no more than nothing,
Why, I agree with you. But let's forgive him.
We've had a share in one night of his life.
What'll you bet he ever calls again?"




IN THE HOME STRETCH


She stood against the kitchen sink, and looked
Over the sink out through a dusty window
At weeds the water from the sink made tall.
She wore her cape; her hat was in her hand.
Behind her was confusion in the room,
Of chairs turned upside down to sit like people
In other chairs, and something, come to look,
For every room a house has—-parlor, bed-room,
And dining-room—-thrown pell-mell in the kitchen.
And now and then a smudged, infernal face
Looked in a door behind her and addressed
Her back. She always answered without turning.

"Where will I put this walnut bureau, lady?"

"Put it on top of something that's on top
Of something else," she laughed. "Oh, put it where
You can to-night, and go. It's almost dark;
You must be getting started back to town."
Another blackened face thrust in and looked
And smiled, and when she did not turn, spoke
gently,
"What are you seeing out the window, _lady?_"

"Never was I beladied so before.
Would evidence of having been called lady
More than so many times make me a lady
In common law, I wonder."

"But I ask,
What are you seeing out the window, lady?"

"What I'll be seeing more of in the years
To come as here I stand and go the round
Of many plates with towels many times."

"And what is that? You only put me off."

"Rank weeds that love the water from the dish-pan
More than some women like the dish-pan, Joe;
A little stretch of mowing-field for you;
Not much of that until I come to woods
That end all. And it's scarce enough to call
A view."

"And yet you think you like it, dear?"

"That's what you're so concerned to know! You
hope
I like it. Bang goes something big away
Off there upstairs. The very tread of men
As great as those is shattering to the frame
Of such a little house. Once left alone,
You and I, dear, will go with softer steps
Up and down stairs and through the rooms, and
none
But sudden winds that snatch them from our hands
Will ever slam the doors."

"I think you see
More than you like to own to out that window."

"No; for besides the things I tell you of,
I only see the years. They come and go
In alternation with the weeds, the field,
The wood."

"What kind of years?"

"Why, latter years—-

Different from early years."

"I see them, too.

You didn't count them?"

"No, the further off
So ran together that I didn't try to.
It can scarce be that they would be in number
We'd care to know, for we are not young now.
And bang goes something else away off there.
It sounds as if it were the men went down,
And every crash meant one less to return
To lighted city streets we, too, have known,
But now are giving up for country darkness."

"Come from that window where you see too much
for me,
And take a livelier view of things from here.
They're going. Watch this husky swarming up
Over the wheel into the sky-high seat,
Lighting his pipe now, squinting down his nose
At the flame burning downward as he sucks it."

"See how it makes his nose-side bright, a proof
How dark it's getting. Can you tell what time
It is by that? Or by the moon? The new moon!
What shoulder did I see her over? Neither.
A wire she is of silver, as new as we
To everything. Her light won't last us long.
It's something, though, to know we're going to
have her
Night after night and stronger every night
To see us through our first two weeks. But, Joe,
The stove! Before they go! Knock on the window;
Ask them to help you get it on its feet.
We stand here dreaming. Hurry! Call them back!"

"They're not gone yet."

"We've got to have the stove,
Whatever else we want for. And a light.
Have we a piece of candle if the lamp
And oil are buried out of reach?"

Again
The house was full of tramping, and the dark,
Door-filling men burst in and seized the stove.
A cannon-mouth-like hole was in the wall,
To which they set it true by eye; and then
Came up the jointed stovepipe in their hands,
So much too light and airy for their strength
It almost seemed to come ballooning up,
Slipping from clumsy clutches toward the ceiling.
"A fit!" said one, and banged a stovepipe shoulder.
"It's good luck when you move in to begin
With good luck with your stovepipe. Never mind,
It's not so bad in the country, settled down,
When people 're getting on in life. You'll like it."
Joe said: "You big boys ought to find a farm,
And make good farmers, and leave other fellows
The city work to do. There's not enough
For everybody as it is in there."
"God!" one said wildly, and, when no one spoke:
"Say that to Jimmy here. He needs a farm."
But Jimmy only made his jaw recede
Fool-like, and rolled his eyes as if to say
He saw himself a farmer. Then there was a French
boy
Who said with seriousness that made them laugh,
"Ma friend, you ain't know what it is you're ask."
He doffed his cap and held it with both hands
Across his chest to make as 'twere a bow:
"We're giving you our chances on de farm."
And then they all turned to with deafening boots
And put each other bodily out of the house.
"Goodby to them! We puzzle them. They think—-
I don't know what they think we see in what
They leave us to: that pasture slope that seems
The back some farm presents us; and your woods
To northward from your window at the sink,
Waiting to steal a step on us whenever
We drop our eyes or turn to other things,
As in the game 'Ten-step' the children play."

"Good boys they seemed, and let them love the city.
All they could say was 'God!' when you proposed
Their coming out and making useful farmers."

"Did they make something lonesome go through
you?
It would take more than them to sicken you—-
Us of our bargain. But they left us so
As to our fate, like fools past reasoning with.
They almost shook _me._"

"It's all so much
What we have always wanted, I confess
It's seeming bad for a moment makes it seem
Even worse still, and so on down, down, down.
It's nothing; it's their leaving us at dusk.
I never bore it well when people went.
The first night after guests have gone, the house
Seems haunted or exposed. I always take
A personal interest in the locking up
At bedtime; but the strangeness soon wears off."
He fetched a dingy lantern from behind
A door. "There's that we didn't lose! And these!"
Some matches he unpocketed. "For food—-
The meals we've had no one can take from us.
I wish that everything on earth were just
As certain as the meals we've had. I wish
The meals we haven't had were, anyway.
What have you you know where to lay your hands
on?"

"The bread we bought in passing at the store.
There's butter somewhere, too."

"Let's rend the bread.
I'll light the fire for company for you;
You'll not have any other company
Till Ed begins to get out on a Sunday
To look us over and give us his idea
Of what wants pruning, shingling, breaking up.
He'll know what he would do if he were we,
And all at once. He'll plan for us and plan
To help us, but he'll take it out in planning.
Well, you can set the table with the loaf.
Let's see you find your loaf. I'll light the fire.
I like chairs occupying other chairs
Not offering a lady—-"

"There again, Joe!
_You're tired._"

"I'm drunk-nonsensical tired out;
Don't mind a word I say. It's a day's work
To empty one house of all household goods
And fill another with 'em fifteen miles away,
Although you do no more than dump them down."

"Dumped down in paradise we are and happy."

"It's all so much what I have always wanted,
I can't believe it's what you wanted, too."

"Shouldn't you like to know?"

"I'd like to know
If it is what you wanted, then how much
You wanted it for me."

"A troubled conscience!
You don't want me to tell if _I_ don't know."

"I don't want to find out what can't be known.
But who first said the word to come?"

My dear,
It's who first thought the thought. You're
searching, Joe,
For things that don't exist; I mean beginnings.
Ends and beginnings—-there are no such things.
There are only middles."

"What is this?"

"This life?
Our sitting here by lantern-light together
Amid the wreckage of a former home?
You won't deny the lantern isn't new.
The stove is not, and you are not to me,
Nor I to you."

"Perhaps you never were?"

"It would take me forever to recite
All that's not new in where we find ourselves.
New is a word for fools in towns who think
Style upon style in dress and thought at last
Must get somewhere. I've heard you say as much.
No, this is no beginning."

"Then an end?"

"End is a gloomy word."

"Is it too late
To drag you out for just a good-night call
On the old peach trees on the knoll to grope
By starlight in the grass for a last peach
The neighbors may not have taken as their right
When the house wasn't lived in? I've been looking:
I doubt if they have left us many grapes.
Before we set ourselves to right the house,
The first thing in the morning, out we go
To go the round of apple, cherry, peach,
Pine, alder, pasture, mowing, well, and brook.
All of a farm it is."

"I know this much:
I'm going to put you in your bed, if first
I have to make you build it. Come, the light."

When there was no more lantern in the kitchen,
The fire got out through crannies in the stove
And danced in yellow wrigglers on the ceiling,
As much at home as if they'd always danced there.




VI




THE ROAD NOT TAKEN


Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both
And be one traveller, long I stood
And looked down one as far as I could
To where it bent in the undergrowth;

Then took the other, as just as fair,
And having perhaps the better claim,
Because it was grassy and wanted wear;
Though as for that the passing there
Had worn them really about the same,

And both that morning equally lay
In leaves no step had trodden black.
Oh, I kept the first for another day!
Yet knowing how way leads on to way,
I doubted if I should ever come back.

I shall be telling this with a sigh
Somewhere ages and ages hence:
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I—-
I took the one less travelled by,
And that has made all the difference.




THE OVEN BIRD


There is a singer everyone has heard,
Loud, a mid-summer and a mid-wood bird,
Who makes the solid tree trunks sound again.
He says that leaves are old and that for flowers
Mid-summer is to spring as one to ten.
He says the early petal-fall is past
When pear and cherry bloom went down in showers
On sunny days a moment overcast;
And comes that other fall we name the fall.
He says the highway dust is over all.
The bird would cease and be as other birds
But that he knows in singing not to sing.
The question that he frames in all but words
Is what to make of a diminished thing.




A VANTAGE POINT


If tired of trees I seek again mankind,
Well I know where to hie me—-in the dawn,
To a slope where the cattle keep the lawn.
There amid lolling juniper reclined,
Myself unseen, I see in white defined
Far off the homes of men, and farther still,
The graves of men on an opposing hill,
Living or dead, whichever are most to mind.

And if by noon I have too much of these,
I have but to turn on my arm, and lo,
The sun-burned hillside sets my face aglow
My breathing shakes the bluet like a breeze,
I smell the earth, I smell the bruised plant,
I look into the crater of the ant.




THE SOUND OF TREES


I wonder about the trees.
Why do we wish to bear
Forever the noise of these
More than another noise
So close to our dwelling place?
We suffer them by the day
Till we lose all measure of pace,
And fixity in our joys,
And acquire a listening air.
They are that that talks of going
But never gets away;
And that talks no less for knowing,
As it grows wiser and older,
That now it means to stay.
My feet tug at the floor
And my head sways to my shoulder
Sometimes when I watch trees sway,
From the window or the door.
I shall set forth for somewhere,
I shall make the reckless choice
Some day when they are in voice
And tossing so as to scare
The white clouds over them on.
I shall have less to say,
But I shall be gone.




HYLA BROOK


By June our brook's run out of song and speed.
Sought for much after that, it will be found
Either to have gone groping underground
(And taken with it all the Hyla breed
That shouted in the mist a month ago,
Like ghost of sleigh-bells in a ghost of snow)—-
Or flourished and come up in jewel-weed,
Weak foliage that is blown upon and bent
Even against the way its waters went.
Its bed is left a faded paper sheet
Of dead leaves stuck together by the heat—-
A brook to none but who remember long.
This as it will be seen is other far
Than with brooks taken otherwhere in song.
We love the things we love for what they are.




MY NOVEMBER GUEST


My Sorrow, when she's here with me,
Thinks these dark days of autumn rain
Are beautiful as days can be;
She loves the bare, the withered tree;
She walks the sodden pasture lane.

Her pleasure will not let me stay.
She talks and I am fain to list:
She's glad the birds are gone away,
She's glad her simple worsted grey
Is silver now with clinging mist.

The desolate, deserted trees,
The faded earth, the heavy sky,
The beauties she so truly sees,
She thinks I have no eye for these,
And vexes me for reason why.

Not yesterday I learned to know
The love of bare November days
Before the coming of the snow,
But it were vain to tell her so,
And they are better for her praise.




RANGE-FINDING


The battle rent a cobweb diamond-strung
And cut a flower beside a ground bird's nest
Before it stained a single human breast.
The stricken flower bent double and so hung.
And still the bird revisited her young.
A butterfly its fall had dispossessed
A moment sought in air his flower of rest,
Then lightly stooped to it and fluttering clung.

On the bare upland pasture there had spread
O'ernight 'twixt mullein stalks a wheel of thread
And straining cables wet with silver dew.
A sudden passing bullet shook it dry.
The indwelling spider ran to greet the fly,
But finding nothing, sullenly withdrew.




OCTOBER


O hushed October morning mild,
Thy leaves have ripened to the fall;
To-morrow's wind, if it be wild,
Should waste them all.
The crows above the forest call;
To-morrow they may form and go.
O hushed October morning mild,
Begin the hours of this day slow,
Make the day seem to us less brief.
Hearts not averse to being beguiled,
Beguile us in the way you know;
Release one leaf at break of day;
At noon release another leaf;
One from our trees, one far away;
Retard the sun with gentle mist;
Enchant the land with amethyst.
Slow, slow!
For the grapes' sake, if they were all,
Whose leaves already are burnt with frost,
Whose clustered fruit must else be lost—-
For the grapes' sake along the wall.




TO THE THAWING WIND


Come with rain, O loud Southwester!
Bring the singer, bring the nester;
Give the buried flower a dream;
Make the settled snow-bank steam;
Find the brown beneath the white;
But whate'er you do to-night,
Bathe my window, make it flow,
Melt it as the ice will go;
Melt the glass and leave the sticks
Like a hermit's crucifix;
Burst into my narrow stall;
Swing the picture on the wall;
Run the rattling pages o'er;
Scatter poems on the floor;
Turn the poet out of door.




VII




A TIME TO TALK


When a friend calls to me from the road
And slows his horse to a meaning walk
I don't stand still and look around
On all the hills I haven't hoed,
And shout from where I am, What is it?
No, not as there is a time to talk.
I thrust my hoe in the mellow ground,
Blade-end up and five feet tall,
And plod: I go up to the stone wall
For a friendly visit.




THE CODE


There were three in the meadow by the brook
Gathering up windrows, piling cocks of hay,
With an eye always lifted toward the west
Where an irregular sun-bordered cloud
Darkly advanced with a perpetual dagger
Flickering across its bosom. Suddenly
One helper, thrusting pitchfork in the ground,
Marched himself off the field and home. One stayed.
The town-bred farmer failed to understand.

"What was there wrong?"

"Something you just now said."

"What did I say?"

"About our taking pains.

"To cock the hay?—-because it's going to shower?
I said that more than half an hour ago.
I said it to myself as much as you."

"You didn't know. But James is one big fool.
He thought you meant to find fault with his work.
That's what the average farmer would have meant.
James would take time, of course, to chew it over
Before he acted: he's just got round to act."

"He is a fool if that's the way he takes me."

"Don't let it bother you. You've found out
something.
The hand that knows his business won't be told
To do work better or faster—-those two things.
I'm as particular as anyone:
Most likely I'd have served you just the same.
But I know you don't understand our ways.
You were just talking what was in your mind,
What was in all our minds, and you weren't hinting.

Tell you a story of what happened once:
I was up here in Salem at a man's
Named Sanders with a gang of four or five
Doing the haying. No one liked the boss.
He was one of the kind sports call a spider,
All wiry arms and legs that spread out wavy
From a humped body nigh as big's a biscuit.
But work! that man could work, especially
If by so doing he could get more work,
Out of his hired help. I'm not denying
He was hard on himself. I couldn't find
That he kept any hours—-not for himself.
Daylight and lantern-light were one to him:
I've heard him pounding in the barn all night.
But what he liked was someone to encourage.
Them that he couldn't lead he'd get behind
And drive, the way you can, you know, in mowing—-
Keep at their heels and threaten to mow their legs
off.
I'd seen about enough of his bulling tricks
(We call that bulling). I'd been watching him.
So when he paired off with me in the hayfield
To load the load, thinks I, Look out for trouble.
I built the load and topped it off; old Sanders
Combed it down with a rake and says, 'O. K.'
Everything went well till we reached the barn
With a big jag to empty in a bay.
You understand that meant the easy job
For the man up on top of throwing _down_
The hay and rolling it off wholesale,
Where on a mow it would have been slow lifting.
You wouldn't think a fellow'd need much urging
Under those circumstances, would you now?
But the old fool seizes his fork in both hands,
And looking up bewhiskered out of the pit,
Shouts like an army captain, 'Let her come!
Thinks I, D'ye mean it? 'What was that you
said?'
I asked out loud, so's there'd be no mistake,
'Did you say, Let her come?' 'Yes, let her come.'
He said it over, but he said it softer.
Never you say a thing like that to a man,
Not if he values what he is. God, I'd as soon
Murdered him as left out his middle name.
I'd built the load and knew right where to find it.
Two or three forkfuls I picked lightly round for
Like meditating, and then I just dug in
And dumped the rackful on him in ten lots,
I looked over the side once in the dust
And caught sight of him treading-water-like,
Keeping his head above. 'Damn ye,' I says,
'That gets ye!' He squeaked like a squeezed rat.
That was the last I saw or heard of him.
I cleaned the rack and drove out to cool off.
As I sat mopping hayseed from my neck,
And sort of waiting to be asked about it,
One of the boys sings out, 'Where's the old man?'
'I left him in the barn under the hay.
If ye want him, ye can go and dig him out.'
They realised from the way I swobbed my neck
More than was needed something must be up.
They headed for the barn; I stayed where I was.
They told me afterward. First they forked hay,
A lot of it, out into the barn floor.
Nothing! They listened for him. Not a rustle.
I guess they thought I'd spiked him in the temple
Before I buried him, or I couldn't have managed.
They excavated more. 'Go keep his wife
Out of the barn.' Someone looked in a window,
And curse me if he wasn't in the kitchen
Slumped way down in a chair, with both his feet
Stuck in the oven, the hottest day that summer.
He looked so clean disgusted from behind
There was no one that dared to stir him up,
Or let him know that he was being looked at.
Apparently I hadn't buried him
(I may have knocked him down); but my just
trying
To bury him had hurt his dignity.
He had gone to the house so's not to meet me.
He kept away from us all afternoon.
We tended to his hay. We saw him out
After a while picking peas in his garden:
He couldn't keep away from doing something."

"Weren't you relieved to find he wasn't dead?"

"No! and yet I don't know—-it's hard to say.
I went about to kill him fair enough."

"You took an awkward way. Did he discharge
you?"
"Discharge me? No! He knew I did just right."




A HUNDRED COLLARS


Lancaster bore him—-such a little town,
Such a great man. It doesn't see him often
Of late years, though he keeps the old homestead
And sends the children down there with their mother
To run wild in the summer—-a little wild.
Sometimes he joins them for a day or two
And sees old friends he somehow can't get near.
They meet him in the general store at night,
Preoccupied with formidable mail,
Rifling a printed letter as he talks.
They seem afraid. He wouldn't have it so:
Though a great scholar, he's a democrat,
If not at heart, at least on principle.
Lately when coming up to Lancaster
His train being late he missed another train
And had four hours to wait at Woodsville Junction
After eleven o'clock at night. Too tired
To think of sitting such an ordeal out,
He turned to the hotel to find a bed.

"No room," the night clerk said. "Unless----"
Woodsville's a place of shrieks and wandering lamps
And cars that shock and rattle—-and _one_ hotel.

"You say 'unless.'"

"Unless you wouldn't mind
Sharing a room with someone else."

"Who is it?"

"A man.

"So I should hope. What kind of man?"

"I know him: he's all right. A man's a man.
Separate beds of course you understand."

The night clerk blinked his eyes and dared him on.
"Who's that man sleeping in the office chair?
Has he had the refusal of my chance?"

"He was afraid of being robbed or murdered.
What do you say?"

"I'll have to have a bed."

The night clerk led him up three flights of stairs
And down a narrow passage full of doors,
At the last one of which he knocked and entered,
"Lafe, here's a fellow wants to share your
room."

"Show him this way. I'm not afraid of him,
I'm not so drunk I can't take care of myself."
The night clerk clapped a bedstead on the foot.
"This will be yours. Good-night," he said, and
went.

"Lafe was the name, I think?"

"Yes, _Lay_fayette.
You got it the first time. And yours?"

"Magoon.

Doctor Magoon."

"A Doctor?"

"Well, a teacher."

"Professor Square-the-circle-till-you're-tired?
Hold on, there's something I don't think of now
That I had on my mind to ask the first
Man that knew anything I happened in with.
I'll ask you later—-don't let me forget it."
The Doctor looked at Lafe and looked away.
A man? A brute. Naked above the waist,
He sat there creased and shining in the light,
Fumbling the buttons in a well-starched shirt.
"I'm moving into a size-larger shirt.
I've felt mean lately; mean's no name for it.
I just found what the matter was to-night:
I've been a-choking like a nursery tree
When it outgrows the wide band of its name tag.
I blamed it on the hot spell we've been having.
'Twas nothing but my foolish hanging back,
Not liking to own up I'd grown a size.
Number eighteen this is. What size do you wear?"

The Doctor caught his throat convulsively.
"Oh—-ah—-fourteen—-fourteen."

"Fourteen! You say so!
I can remember when I wore fourteen.
And come to think I must have back at home
More than a hundred collars, size fourteen.
Too bad to waste them all. You ought to have them.
They're yours and welcome; let me send them to
you.
What makes you stand there on one leg like that?
You're not much furtherer than where Kike left you,
You act as if you wished you hadn't come.
Sit down or lie down friend; you make me nervous."

The Doctor made a subdued dash for it,
And propped himself at bay against a pillow.

"Not that way, with your shoes on Kike's white
bed.
You can't rest that way. Let me pull your shoes
off."

"Don't touch me, please—-I say, don't touch me,
please.
I'll not be put to bed by you, my man."

"Just as you say. Have it your own way then.
'My man' is it? You talk like a professor.
Speaking of who's afraid of who, however,
I'm thinking I have more to lose than you
If anything should happen to be wrong.
Who wants to cut your number fourteen throat!
Let's have a show down as an evidence
Of good faith. There is ninety dollars.
Come, if you're not afraid."

"_I_'m not afraid.
There's five: that's all I carry."

"I can search you?
Where are you moving over to? Stay still.

You'd better tuck your money under you
And sleep on it the way I always do
When I'm with people I don't trust at night."

"Will you believe me if I put it there
Right on the counterpane—-that I do trust you?"

"You'd say so, Mister Man.—-I'm a collector.
My ninety isn't mine—-you won't think that.
I pick it up a dollar at a time
All round the country for the _Weekly News_,
Published in Bow. You know the _Weekly News?_"

"Known it since I was young."

"Then you know me.
Now we are getting on together—-talking.
I'm sort of Something for it at the front.
My business is to find what people want:
They pay for it, and so they ought to have it.
Fairbanks, he says to me—-he's editor—-
Feel out the public sentiment—-he says.
A good deal comes on me when all is said.
The only trouble is we disagree
In politics: I'm Vermont Democrat—-
You know what that is, sort of double-dyed;
The _News_ has always been Republican.
Fairbanks, he says to me, 'Help us this year,'
Meaning by us their ticket. 'No,' I says,
'I can't and won't. You've been in long enough:
It's time you turned around and boosted us.
You'll have to pay me more than ten a week
If I'm expected to elect Bill Taft.
I doubt if I could do it anyway.'"

"You seem to shape the paper's policy."

"You see I'm in with everybody, know 'em all.
I almost know their farms as well as they do."

"You drive around? It must be pleasant work."

"It's business, but I can't say it's not fun.
What I like best's the lay of different farms,
Coming out on them from a stretch of woods,
Or over a hill or round a sudden corner.
I like to find folks getting out in spring,
Raking the dooryard, working near the house.
Later they get out further in the fields.
Everything's shut sometimes except the barn;
The family's all away in some back meadow.
There's a hay load a-coming—-when it comes.
And later still they all get driven in:
The fields are stripped to lawn, the garden patches
Stripped to bare ground, the apple trees
To whips and poles. There's nobody about.
The chimney, though, keeps up a good brisk
smoking.
And I lie back and ride. I take the reins
Only when someone's coming, and the mare
Stops when she likes: I tell her when to go.
I've spoiled Jemima in more ways than one.
She's got so she turns in at every house
As if she had some sort of curvature,
No matter if I have no errand there.
She thinks I'm sociable. I maybe am.
It's seldom I get down except for meals, though.
Folks entertain me from the kitchen doorstep,
All in a family row down to the youngest."

"One would suppose they might not be as glad
To see you as you are to see them."

"Oh,
Because I want their dollar. I don't want
Anything they've not got. I never dun.
I'm there, and they can pay me if they like.
I go nowhere on purpose: I happen by.
Sorry there is no cup to give you a drink.
I drink out of the bottle—-not your style.
Mayn't I offer you----?"

"No, no, no, thank you.

"Just as you say. Here's looking at you then.—-
And now I'm leaving you a little while.

You'll rest easier when I'm gone, perhaps—-
Lie down—-let yourself go and get some sleep.
But first—-let's see—-what was I going to ask you?
Those collars—-who shall I address them to,
Suppose you aren't awake when I come back?"

"Really, friend, I can't let you. You—-may need
them."

"Not till I shrink, when they'll be out of style."

"But really—-I have so many collars."

"I don't know who I rather would have have them.
They're only turning yellow where they are.
But you're the doctor as the saying is.
I'll put the light out. Don't you wait for me:
I've just begun the night. You get some sleep.
I'll knock so-fashion and peep round the door
When I come back so you'll know who it is.
There's nothing I'm afraid of like scared people.
I don't want you should shoot me in the head.
What am I doing carrying off this bottle?
There now, you get some sleep."

He shut the door
The Doctor slid a little down the pillow.




BLUEBERRIES


"You ought to have seen what I saw on my way
To the village, through Mortenson's pasture to-day:
Blueberries as big as the end of your thumb,
Real sky-blue, and heavy, and ready to drum
In the cavernous pail of the first one to come!
And all ripe together, not some of them green
And some of them ripe! You ought to have seen!"

"I don't know what part of the pasture you mean."

"You know where they cut off the woods—-let me
see—-
It was two years ago—-or no!—-can it be
No longer than that?—-and the following fall
The fire ran and burned it all up but the wall."

"Why, there hasn't been time for the bushes to
grow.
That's always the way with the blueberries, though:
There may not have been the ghost of a sign
Of them anywhere under the shade of the pine,
But get the pine out of the way, you may burn
The pasture all over until not a fern
Or grass-blade is left, not to mention a stick,
And presto, they're up all around you as thick
And hard to explain as a conjurer's trick."

"It must be on charcoal they fatten their fruit.
I taste in them sometimes the flavour of soot.

And after all really they're ebony skinned:
The blue's but a mist from the breath of the wind,
A tarnish that goes at a touch of the hand,
And less than the tan with which pickers are
tanned."

"Does Mortenson know what he has, do you
think?"

"He may and not care and so leave the chewink
To gather them for him—-you know what he is.
He won't make the fact that they're rightfully his
An excuse for keeping us other folk out."

"I wonder you didn't see Loren about."

"The best of it was that I did. Do you know,
I was just getting through what the field had to show
And over the wall and into the road,
When who should come by, with a democrat-load
Of all the young chattering Lorens alive,
But Loren, the fatherly, out for a drive."

"He saw you, then? What did he do? Did he
frown?"

"He just kept nodding his head up and down.
You know how politely he always goes by.
But he thought a big thought—-I could tell by his
eye—-
Which being expressed, might be this in effect:
'I have left those there berries, I shrewdly suspect,
To ripen too long. I am greatly to blame.'"

"He's a thriftier person than some I could name."

"He seems to be thrifty; and hasn't he need,
With the mouths of all those young Lorens to feed?
He has brought them all up on wild berries, they
say,
Like birds. They store a great many away.
They eat them the year round, and those they
don't eat
They sell in the store and buy shoes for their feet."

"Who cares what they say? It's a nice way to live,
Just taking what Nature is willing to give,
Not forcing her hand with harrow and plow."

"I wish you had seen his perpetual bow—-
And the air of the youngsters! Not one of them
turned,
And they looked so solemn-absurdly concerned."

"I wish I knew half what the flock of them know
Of where all the berries and other things grow,
Cranberries in bogs and raspberries on top
Of the boulder-strewn mountain, and when they
will crop.
I met them one day and each had a flower
Stuck into his berries as fresh as a shower;
Some strange kind—-they told me it hadn't a name."

"I've told you how once, not long after we came,
I almost provoked poor Loren to mirth
By going to him of all people on earth
To ask if he knew any fruit to be had
For the picking. The rascal, he said he'd be glad
To tell if he knew. But the year had been bad.
There _had_ been some berries—-but those were all
gone.
He didn't say where they had been. He went on:
'I'm sure—-I'm sure'-—as polite as could be.
He spoke to his wife in the door, 'Let me see,
Marne, _we_ don't know any good berrying place?'
It was all he could do to keep a straight face."

"If he thinks all the fruit that grows wild is for him,
He'll find he's mistaken. See here, for a whim,
We'll pick in the Mortensons' pasture this year.
We'll go in the morning, that is, if it's clear,
And the sun shines out warm: the vines must be
wet.
It's so long since I picked I almost forget
How we used to pick berries: we took one look
round,
Then sank out of sight like trolls underground,
And saw nothing more of each other, or heard,
Unless when you said I was keeping a bird
Away from its nest, and I said it was you.
'Well, one of us is.' For complaining it flew
Around and around us. And then for a while
We picked, till I feared you had wandered a mile,
And I thought I had lost you. I lifted a shout
Too loud for the distance you were, it turned out,
For when you made answer, your voice was as low
As talking—-you stood up beside me, you know."

"We shan't have the place to ourselves to enjoy—-
Not likely, when all the young Lorens deploy.
They'll be there to-morrow, or even to-night.
They won't be too friendly—-they may be polite—-
To people they look on as having no right
To pick where they're picking. But we won't
complain.
You ought to have seen how it looked in the rain,
The fruit mixed with water in layers of leaves,
Like two kinds of jewels, a vision for thieves."




BROWN'S DESCENT OR, THE WILLY-NILLY SLIDE


Brown lived at such a lofty farm
That everyone for miles could see
His lantern when he did his chores
In winter after half-past three.

And many must have seen him make
His wild descent from there one night,
'Cross lots, 'cross walls, 'cross everything,
Describing rings of lantern light.

Between the house and barn the gale
Got him by something he had on
And blew him out on the icy crust
That cased the world, and he was gone!

Walls were all buried, trees were few:
He saw no stay unless he stove
A hole in somewhere with his heel.
But though repeatedly he strove

And stamped and said things to himself,
And sometimes something seemed to yield,
He gained no foothold, but pursued
His journey down from field to field.

Sometimes he came with arms outspread
Like wings, revolving in the scene
Upon his longer axis, and
With no small dignity of mien.

Faster or slower as he chanced,
Sitting or standing as he chose,
According as he feared to risk
His neck, or thought to spare his clothes,

He never let the lantern drop.
And some exclaimed who saw afar
The figures he described with it,
"I wonder what those signals are

Brown makes at such an hour of night!
He's celebrating something strange.
I wonder if he's sold his farm,
Or been made Master of the Grange."

He reeled, he lurched, he bobbed, he checked;
He fell and made the lantern rattle
(But saved the light from going out).
So half-way down he fought the battle

Incredulous of his own bad luck.
And then becoming reconciled
To everything, he gave it up
And came down like a coasting child.

"Well—-I-—be----" that was all he said,
As standing in the river road,
He looked back up the slippery slope
(Two miles it was) to his abode.

Sometimes as an authority
On motor-cars, I'm asked if I
Should say our stock was petered out,
And this is my sincere reply:

Yankees are what they always were.
Don't think Brown ever gave up hope
Of getting home again because
He couldn't climb that slippery slope;

Or even thought of standing there
Until the January thaw
Should take the polish off the crust.
He bowed with grace to natural law,

And then went round it on his feet,
After the manner of our stock;
Not much concerned for those to whom,
At that particular time o'clock,

It must have looked as if the course
He steered was really straight away
From that which he was headed for—-
Not much concerned for them, I say.

But now he snapped his eyes three times;
Then shook his lantern, saying, "Ile's
'Bout out!" and took the long way home
By road, a matter of several miles.




VIII




REVELATION


We make ourselves a place apart
Behind light words that tease and flout,
But oh, the agitated heart
Till someone really find us out.

A pity if the case require
(Or so we say) that in the end
We speak the literal to inspire
The understanding of a friend.

But so with all, from babes that play
At hide-and-seek to God afar,
So all who hide too well away
Must speak and tell us where they are.




STORM-FEAR


When the wind works against us in the dark,
And pelts with snow
The lower chamber window on the east,
And whispers with a sort of stifled bark,
The beast,
"Come out! Come out!"—-
It costs no inward struggle not to go,
Ah, do!
I count our strength,
Two and a child,
Those of us not asleep subdued to mark
How the cold creeps as the fire dies at length,—-
How drifts are piled,
Dooryard and road ungraded,
Till even the comforting barn grows far away,
And my heart owns a doubt
Whether 'tis in us to arise with day
And save ourselves unaided.




BOND AND FREE


Love has earth to which she clings
With hills and circling arms about—-
Wall within wall to shut fear out.
But Thought has need of no such things,
For Thought has a pair of dauntless wings.

On snow and sand and turf, I see
Where Love has left a printed trace
With straining in the world's embrace.
And such is Love and glad to be.
But thought has shaken his ankles free.

Thought cleaves the interstellar gloom
And sits in Sirius' disc all night,
Till day makes him retrace his flight,
With smell of burning on every plume,
Back past the sun to an earthly room.

His gains in heaven are what they are.
Yet some say Love by being thrall
And simply staying possesses all
In several beauty that Thought fares far
To find fused in another star.




FLOWER-GATHERING


I left you in the morning,
And in the morning glow,
You walked a way beside me
To make me sad to go.
Do you know me in the gloaming,
Gaunt and dusty grey with roaming?
Are you dumb because you know me not,
Or dumb because you know?

All for me? And not a question
For the faded flowers gay
That could take me from beside you
For the ages of a day?
They are yours, and be the measure
Of their worth for you to treasure,
The measure of the little while
That I've been long away.




RELUCTANCE


Out through the fields and the woods
And over the walls I have wended;
I have climbed the hills of view
And looked at the world, and descended;
I have come by the highway home,
And lo, it is ended.

The leaves are all dead on the ground,
Save those that the oak is keeping
To ravel them one by one
And let them go scraping and creeping
Out over the crusted snow,
When others are sleeping.

And the dead leaves lie huddled and still,
No longer blown hither and thither;
The last lone aster is gone;
The flowers of the witch-hazel wither;
The heart is still aching to seek,
But the feet question "Whither?"

Ah, when to the heart of man
Was it ever less than a treason
To go with the drift of things,
To yield with a grace to reason,
And bow and accept the end
Of a love or a season?




INTO MY OWN


One of my wishes is that those dark trees,
So old and firm they scarcely show the breeze,
Were not, as 'twere, the merest mask of gloom,
But stretched away unto the edge of doom.

I should not be withheld but that some day
Into their vastness I should steal away,
Fearless of ever finding open land,
Or highway where the slow wheel pours the sand.

I do not see why I should e'er turn back,
Or those should not set forth upon my track
To overtake me, who should miss me here
And long to know if still I held them dear.

They would not find me changed from him they
knew—-
Only more sure of all I thought was true.
